---

title: Benzoxazepin oxazolidinone compounds and methods of use
abstract: 


url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09650393&OS=09650393&RS=09650393
owner: Genentech, Inc.
number: 09650393
owner_city: South San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160701
---
This non provisional application filed under 37 CFR 1.53 b claims the benefit under 35 USC 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 188 029 filed on 2 Jul. 2015 which is incorporated by reference in entirety.

The invention relates generally to benzoxazepin oxazolidinone compounds with activity against hyperproliferative disorders such as cancer. The invention also relates to methods of using the compounds for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells or associated pathological conditions.

Upregulation of the phosphoinositide 3 kinase PI3K Akt signaling pathway is a common feature in most cancers Yuan and Cantley 2008 Oncogene 27 5497 510 . Genetic deviations in the pathway have been detected in many human cancers Osaka et al 2004 Apoptosis 9 667 76 and act primarily to stimulate cell proliferation migration and survival. Activation of the pathway occurs following activating point mutations or amplifications of the PIK3CA gene encoding the p110 alpha PI3K isoforms Hennessy et al 2005 Nat. Rev. Drug Discov. 4 988 1004 . Genetic deletion or loss of function mutations within the tumor suppressor PTEN a phosphatase with opposing function to PI3K also increases PI3K pathway signaling Zhang and Yu 2010 Clin. Cancer Res. 16 4325 30. These aberrations lead to increased downstream signaling through kinases such as Akt and mTOR and increased activity of the PI3K pathway has been proposed as a hallmark of resistance to cancer treatment Opel et al 2007 Cancer Res. 67 735 45 Razis et al 2011 Breast Cancer Res. Treat. 128 447 56 .

Phosphatidylinositol 3 Kinase PI3K is a major signaling node for key survival and growth signals for lymphomas and is opposed by the activity of the phosphatase PTEN. The phosphoinositide 3 dependent kinase PI3K signaling pathway is the most dysregulated pathway in hormone receptor positive breast cancer HR BC . The PI3K pathway is also dysregulated in aggressive forms of lymphoma Abubaker 2007 Leukemia 21 2368 2370 . Eight percent of DLBCL diffuse large B cell lymphoma cancers have PI3CA phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase catalytic subunit alpha missense mutations and 37 are PTEN negative by immunohistochemistry test.

Phosphatidylinositol is one of a number of phospholipids found in cell membranes and which participate in intracellular signal transduction. Cell signaling via 3 phosphorylated phosphoinositides has been implicated in a variety of cellular processes e.g. malignant transformation growth factor signaling inflammation and immunity Rameh et al 1999 J. Biol Chem. 274 8347 8350 . The enzyme responsible for generating these phosphorylated signaling products phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase also referred to as PI 3 kinase or PI3K was originally identified as an activity associated with viral oncoproteins and growth factor receptor tyrosine kinases that phosphorylate phosphatidylinositol PI and its phosphorylated derivatives at the 3 hydroxyl of the inositol ring Panayotou et al 1992 Trends Cell Biol 2 358 60 . Phosphoinositide 3 kinases PI3K are lipid kinases that phosphorylate lipids at the 3 hydroxyl residue of an inositol ring Whitman et al 1988 Nature 332 664 . The 3 phosphorylated phospholipids PIP3s generated by PI3 kinases act as second messengers recruiting kinases with lipid binding domains including plekstrin homology PH regions such as Akt and PDK1 phosphoinositide dependent kinase 1 Vivanco et al 2002 Nature Rev. Cancer 2 489 Phillips et al 1998 Cancer 83 41 .

The PI3 kinase family comprises at least 15 different enzymes sub classified by structural homology and are divided into 3 classes based on sequence homology and the product formed by enzyme catalysis. The class I PI3 kinases are composed of 2 subunits a 110 kd catalytic subunit and an 85 kd regulatory subunit. The regulatory subunits contain SH2 domains and bind to tyrosine residues phosphorylated by growth factor receptors with a tyrosine kinase activity or oncogene products thereby inducing the PI3K activity of the p110 catalytic subunit which phosphorylates its lipid substrate. Class I PI3 kinases are involved in important signal transduction events downstream of cytokines integrins growth factors and immunoreceptors which suggests that control of this pathway may lead to important therapeutic effects such as modulating cell proliferation and carcinogenesis. Class I PI3Ks can phosphorylate phosphatidylinositol PI phosphatidylinositol 4 phosphate and phosphatidylinositol 4 5 biphosphate PIP2 to produce phosphatidylinositol 3 phosphate PIP phosphatidylinositol 3 4 biphosphate and phosphatidylinositol 3 4 5 triphosphate respectively. Class II PI3Ks phosphorylate PI and phosphatidylinositol 4 phosphate. Class III PI3Ks can only phosphorylate PI. A key PI3 kinase isoform in cancer is the Class I PI3 kinase p110 as indicated by recurrent oncogenic mutations in p110 Samuels et al 2004 Science 304 554 U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 824 492 5 846 824 6 274 327 . Other isoforms may be important in cancer and are also implicated in cardiovascular and immune inflammatory disease Workman P 2004 Biochem Soc Trans 32 393 396 Patel et al 2004 Proc. Am. Assoc. of Cancer Res. Abstract LB 247 95th Annual Meeting March 27 31 Orlando Fla. USA Ahmadi K and Waterfield M D 2004 Phosphoinositide 3 Kinase Function and Mechanisms Encyclopedia of Biological Chemistry Lennarz W J Lane M D eds Elsevier Academic Press Oncogenic mutations of p110 alpha have been found at a significant frequency in colon breast brain liver ovarian gastric lung and head and neck solid tumors. About 35 40 of hormone receptor positive HR breast cancer tumors harbor a PIK3CA mutation. PTEN abnormalities are found in glioblastoma melanoma prostate endometrial ovarian breast lung head and neck hepatocellular and thyroid cancers.

PI3 kinase PI3K is a heterodimer consisting of p85 and p110 subunits Otsu et al 1991 Cell 65 91 104 Hiles et al 1992 Cell 70 419 29 . Four distinct Class I PI3Ks have been identified designated PI3K alpha beta delta and gamma each consisting of a distinct 110 kDa catalytic subunit and a regulatory subunit. Three of the catalytic subunits i.e. p110 alpha p110 beta and p110 delta each interact with the same regulatory subunit p85 whereas p110 gamma interacts with a distinct regulatory subunit p101. The patterns of expression of each of these PI3Ks in human cells and tissues are distinct. In each of the PI3K alpha beta and delta subtypes the p85 subunit acts to localize PI3 kinase to the plasma membrane by the interaction of its SH2 domain with phosphorylated tyrosine residues present in an appropriate sequence context in target proteins Rameh et al 1995 Cell 83 821 30 Volinia et al 1992 Oncogene 7 789 93 .

The PI3 kinase Akt PTEN pathway is an attractive target for cancer drug development since such agents would be expected to inhibit cellular proliferation to repress signals from stromal cells that provide for survival and chemoresistance of cancer cells to reverse the repression of apoptosis and surmount intrinsic resistance of cancer cells to cytotoxic agents. PI3K is activated through receptor tyrosine kinase signaling as well as activating mutations in the p110 catalytic subunit of PI3K loss of the tumor suppressor PTEN or through rare activating mutations in AKT.

Taselisib GDC 0032 Roche RG7604 CAS Reg. No. 1282512 48 4 Genentech Inc. named as 2 4 2 1 isopropyl 3 methyl 1H 1 2 4 triazol 5 yl 5 6 dihydrobenzo f imidazo 1 2 d 1 4 oxazepin 9 yl 1H pyrazol 1 yl 2 methylpropanamide has potent PI3K activity Ndubaku C. O. et al 2013 J. Med. Chem. 56 4597 4610 WO 2011 036280 U.S. Pat. Nos. 8 242 104 8 343 955 and is being studied in patients with locally advanced or metastatic solid tumors. Taselisib GDC 0032 is a beta isoform sparing inhibitor of the PI3K catalytic subunit 31 more selective for the alpha subunit compared to beta. Taselisib displays greater selectivity for mutant PI3K isoforms than wild type PI3K Olivero A G et al AACR 2013. Abstract DDT02 01 . Taselisib is currently being developed as a treatment for patients with oestrogen receptor ER positive HER2 negative metastatic breast cancer mBC and non small cell lung cancer NSCLC . In the phase Ia study with single agent taselisib partial responses PRs were observed in 6 34 enrolled patients. All 6 responses were observed in patients with PIK3CA mutant tumors Juric D. et al. AACR 2013 indicating the need to determine PIK3CA mutation status from patients treated with taselisib.

Recent clinical data with PI3K inhibitors has implicated PI3K delta activity as a source of gastrointestinal toxicities Akinleye et al Phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase PI3K inhibitors as cancer therapeutics Journal of Hematology Oncology 2013 6 88 104 C. Saura et al Phase Ib Study of the PI3K Inhibitor Taselisib GDC 0032 in Combination with Letrozole in Patients with Hormone Receptor Positive Advanced Breast Cancer San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium Dec. 12 2014 PD5 2 Lopez et al Taselisib a selective inhibitor of PIK3CA is highly effective on PIK3CA mutated and HER2 neu amplified uterine serous carcinoma in vitro and in vivo 2014 Gynecologic Oncology .

Idelalisib GS 1101 CAL 101 ZYDELIG Gilead Sciences Inc. CAS Reg. No. 870281 82 6 5 fluoro 3 phenyl 2 15 1 7H purin 6 ylamino propyl 4 3H quinazolinone is a selective PI3K delta inhibitor and approved for the treatment of chronic lymphoid leukemia CLL Somoza J. R. et al 2015 J. Biol. Chem. 290 8439 8446 U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 800 620 6 949 535 8 138 195 8 492 389 8 637 533 8 865 730 8 980 901 RE44599 RE44638 . Diarrhea and colitis are among the most common adverse events reported after idelalisib treatment Brown et al Idelalisib an inhibitor of phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase p110d for relapsed refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia 2014 Blood 123 22 3390 3397 Zydelig Prescribing Information 2014 Zydelig REMS Fact Sheet . The significant GI toxicities observed after treatment with idelalisib are consistent with the hypothesis that inhibition of PI3K delta is a source of gastrointestinal toxicities. Additional serious side effects were seen in clinical trials of idelalisib Zydelig in combination with other therapies. Adverse events including deaths have been tied to infections such as pneumonia. In March 2016 the EMA s Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee PRAC issued a provisional warning and a recommendation that patients receive antibiotic co treatment and are routinely monitored for infection when taking Zydelig idelalisib . In March 2016 the US Food and Drug Administration issued an alert that six clinical trials exploring idelalisib Zydelig in combination with other therapies have been halted due to reports of an increased rate of adverse events including death .

There is a need for additional modulators of PI3K that are useful for treating cancers particularly an inhibitor of PI3K that is selective for mutant PI3K expressing tumors relative to non mutant PI3K expressing cells. There is especially a need for such an agent that selectively inhibits the PI3K isoform relative to the PI3K PI3K and PI3K isoforms which may be expected to result in an enhanced therapeutic window.

The invention relates generally to benzoxazepin oxazolidinone compounds with selective activity in modulating mutant forms of the PI3K alpha isoform and having the Formula I structure 

and stereoisomers geometric isomers tautomers and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. The various substituents are defined herein.

Another aspect of the invention is a pharmaceutical composition comprising a benzoxazepin oxazolidinone compound of Formula I and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier glidant diluent or excipient.

Another aspect of the invention is a method of treating cancer in a patient having cancer comprising administering to said patient a therapeutically effective amount of a benzoxazepin oxazolidinone compound of Formula I.

Reference will now be made in detail to certain embodiments of the invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying structures and formulas. While the invention will be described in conjunction with the enumerated embodiments it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the invention to those embodiments. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover all alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included within the scope of the present invention as defined by the claims. One skilled in the art will recognize many methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein which could be used in the practice of the present invention. The present invention is in no way limited to the methods and materials described. In the event that one or more of the incorporated literature patents and similar materials differs from or contradicts this application including but not limited to defined terms term usage described techniques or the like this application controls. Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. Although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the invention suitable methods and materials are described below. All publications patent applications patents and other references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. The nomenclature used in this Application is based on IUPAC systematic nomenclature unless indicated otherwise.

When indicating the number of substituents the term one or more refers to the range from one substituent to the highest possible number of substitution i.e. replacement of one hydrogen up to replacement of all hydrogens by substituents. The term substituent denotes an atom or a group of atoms replacing a hydrogen atom on the parent molecule. The term substituted denotes that a specified group bears one or more substituents. Where any group may carry multiple substituents and a variety of possible substituents is provided the substituents are independently selected and need not to be the same. The term unsubstituted means that the specified group bears no substituents. The term optionally substituted means that the specified group is unsubstituted or substituted by one or more substituents independently chosen from the group of possible substituents. When indicating the number of substituents the term one or more means from one substituent to the highest possible number of substitution i.e. replacement of one hydrogen up to replacement of all hydrogens by substituents.

The term alkyl as used herein refers to a saturated linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of one to twelve carbon atoms C C wherein the alkyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. In another embodiment an alkyl radical is one to eight carbon atoms C C or one to six carbon atoms C C . Examples of alkyl groups include but are not limited to methyl Me CH ethyl Et CHCH 1 propyl n Pr n propyl CHCHCH 2 propyl i Pr i propyl CH CH 1 butyl n Bu n butyl CHCHCHCH 2 methyl 1 propyl i Bu i butyl CHCH CH 2 butyl s Bu s butyl CH CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 propyl t Bu t butyl C CH 1 pentyl n pentyl CHCHCHCHCH 2 pentyl CH CH CHCHCH 3 pentyl CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 butyl C CH CHCH 3 methyl 2 butyl CH CH CH CH 3 methyl 1 butyl CHCHCH CH 2 methyl 1 butyl CHCH CH CHCH 1 hexyl CHCHCHCHCHCH 2 hexyl CH CH CHCHCHCH 3 hexyl CH CHCH CHCHCH 2 methyl 2 pentyl C CH CHCHCH 3 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CH CH CHCH 4 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CHCH CH 3 methyl 3 pentyl C CH CHCH 2 methyl 3 pentyl CH CHCH CH CH 2 3 dimethyl 2 butyl C CH CH CH 3 3 dimethyl 2 butyl CH CH C CH 1 heptyl 1 octyl and the like.

The terms carbocycle carbocyclyl carbocyclic ring and cycloalkyl refer to a monovalent non aromatic saturated or partially unsaturated ring having 3 to 12 carbon atoms C C as a monocyclic ring or 7 to 12 carbon atoms as a bicyclic ring. Bicyclic carbocycles having 7 to 12 atoms can be arranged for example as a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system and bicyclic carbocycles having 9 or 10 ring atoms can be arranged as a bicyclo 5 6 or 6 6 system or as bridged systems such as bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane bicyclo 2.2.2 octane and bicyclo 3.2.2 nonane. Spiro carbocyclyl moieties are also included within the scope of this definition. Examples of spiro carbocyclyl moieties include 2.2 pentanyl 2.3 hexanyl and 2.4 heptanyl. Examples of monocyclic carbocycles include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl 1 cyclopent 1 enyl 1 cyclopent 2 enyl 1 cyclopent 3 enyl cyclohexyl 1 cyclohex 1 enyl 1 cyclohex 2 enyl 1 cyclohex 3 enyl cyclohexadienyl cycloheptyl cyclooctyl cyclononyl cyclodecyl cycloundecyl cyclododecyl and the like. Carbocyclyl groups are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

 Aryl means a monovalent aromatic hydrocarbon radical of 6 20 carbon atoms C C derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from a single carbon atom of a parent aromatic ring system. Some aryl groups are represented in the exemplary structures as Ar . Aryl includes bicyclic radicals comprising an aromatic ring fused to a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic ring. Typical aryl groups include but are not limited to radicals derived from benzene phenyl substituted benzenes naphthalene anthracene biphenyl indenyl indanyl 1 2 dihydronaphthalene 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthyl and the like. Aryl groups are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

The terms heterocycle heterocyclyl and heterocyclic ring are used interchangeably herein and refer to a saturated or a partially unsaturated i.e. having one or more double and or triple bonds within the ring carbocyclic radical of 3 to about 20 ring atoms in which at least one ring atom is a heteroatom selected from nitrogen oxygen phosphorus and sulfur the remaining ring atoms being C where one or more ring atoms is optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. A heterocycle may be a monocycle having 3 to 7 ring members 2 to 6 carbon atoms and 1 to 4 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S or a bicycle having 7 to 10 ring members 4 to 9 carbon atoms and 1 to 6 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S for example a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system. Heterocycles are described in Paquette Leo A. Principles of Modern Heterocyclic Chemistry W. A. Benjamin New York 1968 particularly Chapters 1 3 4 6 7 and 9 The Chemistry of Heterocyclic Compounds A series of Monographs John Wiley Sons New York 1950 to present in particular Volumes 13 14 16 19 and 28 and J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1960 82 5566. Heterocyclyl also includes radicals where heterocycle radicals are fused with a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring. Examples of heterocyclic rings include but are not limited to morpholin 4 yl piperidin 1 yl piperazinyl piperazin 4 yl 2 one piperazin 4 yl 3 one pyrrolidin 1 yl thiomorpholin 4 yl S dioxothiomorpholin 4 yl azocan 1 yl azetidin 1 yl octahydropyrido 1 2 a pyrazin 2 yl 1 4 diazepan 1 yl pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrothienyl tetrahydropyranyl dihydropyranyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl piperidino morpholino thiomorpholino thioxanyl piperazinyl homopiperazinyl azetidinyl oxetanyl thietanyl homopiperidinyl oxepanyl thiepanyl oxazepinyl diazepinyl thiazepinyl 2 pyrrolinyl 3 pyrrolinyl indolinyl 2H pyranyl 4H pyranyl dioxanyl 1 3 dioxolanyl pyrazolinyl dithianyl dithiolanyl dihydropyranyl dihydrothienyl dihydrofuranyl pyrazolidinylimidazolinyl imidazolidinyl 3 azabicyco 3.1.0 hexanyl 3 azabicyclo 4.1.0 heptanyl azabicyclo 2.2.2 hexanyl 3H indolyl quinolizinyl and N pyridyl ureas. Spiro heterocyclyl moieties are also included within the scope of this definition. Examples of spiro heterocyclyl moieties include azaspiro 2.5 octanyl and azaspiro 2.4 heptanyl. Examples of a heterocyclic group wherein 2 ring atoms are substituted with oxo O moieties are pyrimidinonyl and 1 1 dioxo thiomorpholinyl.

The term heteroaryl refers to a monovalent aromatic radical of 5 6 or 7 membered rings and includes fused ring systems at least one of which is aromatic of 5 20 atoms containing one or more heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur. Examples of heteroaryl groups are pyridinyl including for example 2 hydroxypyridinyl imidazolyl imidazopyridinyl pyrimidinyl including for example 4 hydroxypyrimidinyl pyrazolyl triazolyl pyrazinyl tetrazolyl furyl thienyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl oxadiazolyl oxazolyl isothiazolyl pyrrolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl tetrahydroisoquinolinyl indolyl benzimidazolyl benzofuranyl cinnolinyl indazolyl indolizinyl phthalazinyl pyridazinyl triazinyl isoindolyl pteridinyl purinyl oxadiazolyl triazolyl thiadiazolyl thiadiazolyl furazanyl benzofurazanyl benzothiophenyl benzothiazolyl benzoxazolyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl naphthyridinyl and furopyridinyl.

The terms treat and treatment refer to therapeutic treatment wherein the object is to slow down lessen an undesired physiological change or disorder such as the development or spread of arthritis or cancer. For purposes of this invention beneficial or desired clinical results include but are not limited to alleviation of symptoms diminishment of extent of disease stabilized i.e. not worsening state of disease delay or slowing of disease progression amelioration or palliation of the disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable. Treatment can also mean prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment. Those in need of treatment include those with the condition or disorder.

The phrase therapeutically effective amount means an amount of a compound of the present invention that i treats the particular disease condition or disorder ii attenuates ameliorates or eliminates one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder or iii prevents or delays the onset of one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder described herein. In the case of cancer the therapeutically effective amount of the drug may reduce the number of cancer cells reduce the tumor size inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop tumor metastasis inhibit to some extent tumor growth and or relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the cancer. To the extent the drug may prevent growth and or kill existing cancer cells it may be cytostatic and or cytotoxic. For cancer therapy efficacy can be measured for example by assessing the time to disease progression TTP and or determining the response rate RR .

The terms cancer refers to or describe the physiological condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth. A tumor comprises one or more cancerous cells. Examples of cancer include but are not limited to carcinoma lymphoma blastoma sarcoma and leukemia or lymphoid malignancies. More particular examples of such cancers include squamous cell cancer e.g. epithelial squamous cell cancer lung cancer including small cell lung cancer non small cell lung cancer NSCLC adenocarcinoma of the lung and squamous carcinoma of the lung cancer of the peritoneum hepatocellular cancer gastric or stomach cancer including gastrointestinal cancer pancreatic cancer glioblastoma cervical cancer ovarian cancer liver cancer bladder cancer hepatoma breast cancer colon cancer rectal cancer colorectal cancer endometrial or uterine carcinoma salivary gland carcinoma kidney or renal cancer prostate cancer vulval cancer thyroid cancer hepatic carcinoma anal carcinoma penile carcinoma as well as head and neck cancer.

 Hematological malignancies British spelling Haematological malignancies are the types of cancer that affect blood bone marrow and lymph nodes. As the three are intimately connected through the immune system a disease affecting one of the three will often affect the others as well although lymphoma is a disease of the lymph nodes it often spreads to the bone marrow affecting the blood. Hematological malignancies are malignant neoplasms cancer and they are generally treated by specialists in hematology and or oncology. In some centers Hematology oncology is a single subspecialty of internal medicine while in others they are considered separate divisions there are also surgical and radiation oncologists . Not all hematological disorders are malignant cancerous these other blood conditions may also be managed by a hematologist. Hematological malignancies may derive from either of the two major blood cell lineages myeloid and lymphoid cell lines. The myeloid cell line normally produces granulocytes erythrocytes thrombocytes macrophages and mast cells the lymphoid cell line produces B T NK and plasma cells. Lymphomas lymphocytic leukemias and myeloma are from the lymphoid line while acute and chronic myelogenous leukemia myelodysplastic syndromes and myeloproliferative diseases are myeloid in origin. Leukemias include Acute lymphoblastic leukemia ALL Acute myelogenous leukemia AML Chronic lymphocytic leukemia CLL Chronic myelogenous leukemia CML Acute monocytic leukemia AMOL and small lymphocytic lymphoma SLL . Lymphomas include Hodgkin s lymphomas all four subtypes and Non Hodgkin s lymphomas NHL all subtypes .

A chemotherapeutic agent is a chemical compound useful in the treatment of cancer regardless of mechanism of action. Classes of chemotherapeutic agents include but are not limited to alkylating agents antimetabolites spindle poison plant alkaloids cytotoxic antitumor antibiotics topoisomerase inhibitors antibodies photosensitizers and kinase inhibitors. Chemotherapeutic agents include compounds used in targeted therapy and conventional chemotherapy. Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include ibrutinib IMBRUVICA APCI 32765 Pharmacyclics Inc. Janssen Biotech Inc. CAS Reg. No. 936563 96 1 U.S. Pat. No. 7 514 444 idelalisib formerly CAL 101 GS 1101 GS 1101 Gilead Sciences Inc. CAS Reg. No. 1146702 54 6 erlotinib TARCEVA Genentech OSI Pharm. docetaxel TAXOTERE Sanofi Aventis 5 FU fluorouracil 5 fluorouracil CAS Reg. No. 51 21 8 gemcitabine GEMZAR Lilly PD 0325901 CAS No. 391210 10 9 Pfizer cisplatin Platinol SP 4 2 diamminedichloroplatinum II cis diamine dichloroplatinum II CAS No. 15663 27 1 carboplatin CAS No. 41575 94 4 paclitaxel TAXOL Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology Princeton N.J. trastuzumab HERCEPTIN Genentech temozolomide 4 methyl 5 oxo 2 3 4 6 8 pentazabicyclo 4.3.0 nona 2 7 9 triene 9 carboxamide CAS No. 85622 93 1 TEMODAR TEMODAL Schering Plough tamoxifen Z 2 4 1 2 diphenylbut 1 enyl phenoxy N N dimethylethanamine NOLVADEX ISTUBAL VALODEX and doxorubicin ADRIAMYCIN CAS No. 23214 92 8 Akti 1 2 HPPD and rapamycin.

Chemotherapeutic agents include inhibitors of B cell receptor targets such as BTK Bcl 2 and JAK inhibitors.

More examples of chemotherapeutic agents include oxaliplatin ELOXATIN Sanofi bortezomib VELCADE Millennium Pharm. sutent SUNITINIB SU11248 Pfizer letrozole FEMARA Novartis imatinib mesylate GLEEVEC Novartis XL 518 Mek inhibitor Exelixis WO 2007 044515 ARRY 886 Mek inhibitor AZD6244 Array BioPharma Astra Zeneca SF 1126 PI3K inhibitor Semafore Pharmaceuticals BEZ 235 PI3K inhibitor Novartis XL 147 PI3K inhibitor Exelixis PTK787 ZK 222584 Novartis fulvestrant FASLODEX AstraZeneca leucovorin folinic acid rapamycin sirolimus RAPAMUNE Wyeth lapatinib TYKERB GSK572016 Glaxo Smith Kline lonafarnib SARASAR SCH 66336 Schering Plough sorafenib NEXAVAR BAY43 9006 Bayer Labs gefitinib IRESSA AstraZeneca irinotecan CAMPTOSAR CPT 11 Pfizer tipifarnib ZARNESTRA Johnson Johnson ABRAXANE Cremophor free albumin engineered nanoparticle formulations of paclitaxel American Pharmaceutical Partners Schaumberg Ill. vandetanib rINN ZD6474 ZACTIMA AstraZeneca chlorambucil AG1478 AG1571 SU 5271 Sugen temsirolimus TORISEL Wyeth pazopanib GlaxoSmithKline canfosfamide TELCYTA Telik thiotepa and cyclosphosphamide CYTOXAN NEOSAR alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine triethylenephosphoramide triethylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylomelamine acetogenins especially bullatacin and bullatacinone a camptothecin including the synthetic analog topotecan bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogs cryptophycins particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8 dolastatin duocarmycin including the synthetic analogs KW 2189 and CB1 TM1 eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlornaphazine chlorophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard nitrosoureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimnustine antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin calicheamicin gamma1I calicheamicin omegaI1 Angew Chem. Intl. Ed. Engl. 1994 33 183 186 dynemicin dynemicin A bisphosphonates such as clodronate an esperamicin as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antibiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin carabicin carminomycin carzinophilin chromomycinis dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin epirubicin esorubicin idarubicin nemorubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin porfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin zorubicin anti metabolites such as methotrexate and 5 fluorouracil 5 FU folic acid analogs such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane testolactone anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid eniluracil amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elfornithine elliptinium acetate an epothilone etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lentinan lonidainine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidanmol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone podophyllinic acid 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex JHS Natural Products Eugene Oreg. razoxane rhizoxin sizofiran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine trichothecenes especially T 2 toxin verracurin A roridin A and anguidine urethan vindesine dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside Ara C cyclophosphamide thiotepa 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine methotrexate platinum analogs such as cisplatin and carboplatin vinblastine etoposide VP 16 ifosfamide mitoxantrone vincristine vinorelbine NAVELBINE novantrone teniposide edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin capecitabine XELODA Roche ibandronate CPT 11 topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluoromethylornithine DMFO retinoids such as retinoic acid and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are i anti hormonal agents that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERMs including for example tamoxifen including NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate raloxifene droloxifene 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and FARESTON toremifine citrate and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERDs such as fulvestrant FASLODEX Astra Zeneca ii aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands such as for example 4 5 imidazoles aminoglutethimide MEGASE megestrol acetate AROMASIN exemestane Pfizer formestanie fadrozole RIVISOR vorozole FEMARA letrozole Novartis and ARIMIDEX anastrozole AstraZeneca iii anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide bicalutamide leuprolide and goserelin as well as troxacitabine a 1 3 dioxolane nucleoside cytosine analog iv protein kinase inhibitors such as MEK inhibitors such as cobimetinib WO 2007 044515 v lipid kinase inhibitors such as taselisib GDC 0032 Genentech Inc. vi antisense oligonucleotides particularly those which inhibit expression of genes in signaling pathways implicated in aberrant cell proliferation for example PKC alpha Raf and H Ras such as oblimersen GENASENSE Genta Inc. vii ribozymes such as VEGF expression inhibitors e.g. ANGIOZYME and HER2 expression inhibitors viii vaccines such as gene therapy vaccines for example ALLOVECTIN LEUVECTIN and VAXID PROLEUKIN rIL 2 topoisomerase 1 inhibitors such as LURTOTECAN ABARELIX rmRH ix anti angiogenic agents such as bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are therapeutic antibodies such as alemtuzumab Campath bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech cetuximab ERBITUX Imclone panitumumab VECTIBIX Amgen rituximab RITUXAN Genentech Biogen Idec pertuzumab PERJETA 2C4 Genentech trastuzumab HERCEPTIN Genentech trastuzumab emtansine KADCYLA Genentech Inc. and tositumomab BEXXAR Corixia .

A metabolite is a product produced through metabolism in the body of a specified compound or salt thereof. Metabolites of a compound may be identified using routine techniques known in the art and their activities determined using tests such as those described herein. Such products may result for example from the oxidation reduction hydrolysis amidation deamidation esterification deesterification enzymatic cleavage and the like of the administered compound. Accordingly the invention includes metabolites of compounds of the invention including compounds produced by a process comprising contacting a Formula I compound of this invention with a mammal for a period of time sufficient to yield a metabolic product thereof.

The term package insert is used to refer to instructions customarily included in commercial packages of therapeutic products that contain information about the indications usage dosage administration contraindications and or warnings concerning the use of such therapeutic products.

The term chiral refers to molecules which have the property of non superimposability of the mirror image partner while the term achiral refers to molecules which are superimposable on their mirror image partner.

The term stereoisomers refers to compounds which have identical chemical constitution but differ with regard to the arrangement of the atoms or groups in space.

 Diastereomer refers to a stereoisomer with two or more centers of chirality and whose molecules are not mirror images of one another. Diastereomers have different physical properties e.g. melting points boiling points spectral properties and reactivities. Mixtures of diastereomers may separate under high resolution analytical procedures such as electrophoresis and chromatography.

 Enantiomers refer to two stereoisomers of a compound which are non superimposable mirror images of one another.

Stereochemical definitions and conventions used herein generally follow S. P. Parker Ed. 1984 McGraw Hill Book Company New York and Eliel E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1994. The compounds of the invention may contain asymmetric or chiral centers and therefore exist in different stereoisomeric forms. It is intended that all stereoisomeric forms of the compounds of the invention including but not limited to diastereomers enantiomers and atropisomers as well as mixtures thereof such as racemic mixtures form part of the present invention. Many organic compounds exist in optically active forms i.e. they have the ability to rotate the plane of plane polarized light. In describing an optically active compound the prefixes D and L or R and S are used to denote the absolute configuration of the molecule about its chiral center s . The prefixes d and l or and are employed to designate the sign of rotation of plane polarized light by the compound with or 1 meaning that the compound is levorotatory. A compound prefixed with or d is dextrorotatory. For a given chemical structure these stereoisomers are identical except that they are mirror images of one another. A specific stereoisomer may also be referred to as an enantiomer and a mixture of such isomers is often called an enantiomeric mixture. A 50 50 mixture of enantiomers is referred to as a racemic mixture or a racemate which may occur where there has been no stereoselection or stereospecificity in a chemical reaction or process. The terms racemic mixture and racemate refer to an equimolar mixture of two enantiomeric species devoid of optical activity. Enantiomers may be separated from a racemic mixture by a chiral separation method such as supercritical fluid chromatography SFC . Assignment of configuration at chiral centers in separated enantiomers may be tentative and depicted in Table 1 structures for illustrative purposes while stereochemistry is definitively established such as from x ray crystallographic data.

The term tautomer or tautomeric form refers to structural isomers of different energies which are interconvertible via a low energy barrier. For example proton tautomers also known as prototropic tautomers include interconversions via migration of a proton such as keto enol and imine enamine isomerizations. Valence tautomers include interconversions by reorganization of some of the bonding electrons.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable salts denotes salts which are not biologically or otherwise undesirable. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts include both acid and base addition salts. The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable indicates that the substance or composition must be compatible chemically and or toxicologically with the other ingredients comprising a formulation and or the mammal being treated therewith.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt denotes those pharmaceutically acceptable salts formed with inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid carbonic acid phosphoric acid and organic acids selected from aliphatic cycloaliphatic aromatic aryl aliphatic heterocyclic carboxylic and sulfonic classes of organic acids such as formic acid acetic acid propionic acid glycolic acid gluconic acid lactic acid pyruvic acid oxalic acid malic acid maleic acid malonic acid succinic acid fumaric acid tartaric acid citric acid aspartic acid ascorbic acid glutamic acid anthranilic acid benzoic acid cinnamic acid mandelic acid embonic acid phenylacetic acid methanesulfonic acid mesylate ethanesulfonic acid p toluenesulfonic acid and salicyclic acid.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salt denotes those pharmaceutically acceptable salts formed with an organic or inorganic base. Examples of acceptable inorganic bases include sodium potassium ammonium calcium magnesium iron zinc copper manganese and aluminum salts. Salts derived from pharmaceutically acceptable organic nontoxic bases includes salts of primary secondary and tertiary amines substituted amines including naturally occurring substituted amines cyclic amines and basic ion exchange resins such as isopropylamine trimethylamine diethylamine triethylamine tripropylamine ethanolamine 2 diethylaminoethanol trimethamine dicyclohexylamine lysine arginine histidine caffeine procaine hydrabamine choline betaine ethylenediamine glucosamine methylglucamine theobromine purines piperazine piperidine N ethylpiperidine and polyamine resins

A solvate refers to an association or complex of one or more solvent molecules and a compound of the invention. Examples of solvents that form solvates include but are not limited to water isopropanol ethanol methanol DMSO ethylacetate acetic acid and ethanolamine.

The term EC is the half maximal effective concentration and denotes the plasma concentration of a particular compound required for obtaining 50 of the maximum of a particular effect in vivo.

The term Ki is the inhibition constant and denotes the absolute binding affinity of a particular inhibitor to a receptor. It is measured using competition binding assays and is equal to the concentration where the particular inhibitor would occupy 50 of the receptors if no competing ligand e.g. a radioligand was present. Ki values can be converted logarithmically to pKi values log Ki in which higher values indicate exponentially greater potency.

The term IC is the half maximal inhibitory concentration and denotes the concentration of a particular compound required for obtaining 50 inhibition of a biological process in vitro. ICvalues can be converted logarithmically to pICvalues log IC in which higher values indicate exponentially greater potency. The ICvalue is not an absolute value but depends on experimental conditions e.g. concentrations employed and can be converted to an absolute inhibition constant Ki using the Cheng Prusoff equation Biochem. Pharmacol. 1973 22 3099 . Other percent inhibition parameters such as IC IC etc. may be calculated.

The terms compound of this invention and compounds of the present invention and compounds of Formula I include compounds of Formulas I and stereoisomers geometric isomers tautomers solvates metabolites and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs thereof.

Any formula or structure given herein including Formula I compounds is also intended to represent hydrates solvates and polymorphs of such compounds and mixtures thereof.

Any formula or structure given herein including Formula I compounds is also intended to represent unlabeled forms as well as isotopically labeled forms of the compounds. Isotopically labeled compounds have structures depicted by the formulas given herein except that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom having a selected atomic mass or mass number. Examples of isotopes that can be incorporated into compounds of the invention include isotopes of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen phosphorous fluorine and chlorine such as but not limited to 2H deuterium D 3H tritium 11C 13C 14C 15N 18F 31P 32P 35S 36Cl and 125I. Various isotopically labeled compounds of the present invention for example those into which radioactive isotopes such as 3H 13C and 14C are incorporated. Such isotopically labeled compounds may be useful in metabolic studies reaction kinetic studies detection or imaging techniques such as positron emission tomography PET or single photon emission computed tomography SPECT including drug or substrate tissue distribution assays or in radioactive treatment of patients. Deuterium labeled or substituted therapeutic compounds of the invention may have improved DMPK drug metabolism and pharmacokinetics properties relating to distribution metabolism and excretion ADME . Substitution with heavier isotopes such as deuterium may afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability for example increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements. An 18F labeled compound may be useful for PET or SPECT studies. Isotopically labeled compounds of this invention and prodrugs thereof can generally be prepared by carrying out the procedures disclosed in the schemes or in the examples and preparations described below by substituting a readily available isotopically labeled reagent for a non isotopically labeled reagent. Further substitution with heavier isotopes particularly deuterium i.e. 2H or D may afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability for example increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements or an improvement in therapeutic index. It is understood that deuterium in this context is regarded as a substituent in the compound of the formula I . The concentration of such a heavier isotope specifically deuterium may be defined by an isotopic enrichment factor. In the compounds of this invention any atom not specifically designated as a particular isotope is meant to represent any stable isotope of that atom. Unless otherwise stated when a position is designated specifically as H or hydrogen the position is understood to have hydrogen at its natural abundance isotopic composition. Accordingly in the compounds of this invention any atom specifically designated as a deuterium D is meant to represent deuterium.

The present invention provides benzoxazepin oxazolidinone compounds of Formula I and pharmaceutical formulations thereof which are potentially useful in the treatment of cancer having the structure 

The Formula I compounds of the invention may contain asymmetric or chiral centers and therefore exist in different stereoisomeric forms. It is intended that all stereoisomeric forms of the compounds of the invention including but not limited to diastereomers enantiomers and atropisomers as well as mixtures thereof such as racemic mixtures form part of the present invention. In some instances the stereochemistry has not been determined or has been provisionally assigned.

In addition the present invention embraces all diastereomers including cis trans geometric and conformational isomers. For example if a Formula I compound incorporates a double bond or a fused ring the cis and trans forms as well as mixtures thereof are embraced within the scope of the invention.

In the structures shown herein where the stereochemistry of any particular chiral atom is not specified then all stereoisomers are contemplated and included as the compounds of the invention. Where stereochemistry is specified by a solid wedge or dashed line representing a particular configuration then that stereoisomer is so specified and defined.

The compounds of the present invention may exist in unsolvated as well as solvated forms with pharmaceutically acceptable solvents such as water ethanol and the like and it is intended that the invention embrace both solvated and unsolvated forms.

The compounds of the present invention may also exist in different tautomeric forms and all such forms are embraced within the scope of the invention. The term tautomer or tautomeric form refers to structural isomers of different energies which are interconvertible via a low energy barrier. For example proton tautomers also known as prototropic tautomers include interconversions via migration of a proton such as keto enol and imine enamine isomerizations. Valence tautomers include interconversions by reorganization of some of the bonding electrons.

The relative efficacies of Formula I compounds as inhibitors of an enzyme activity or other biological activity can be established by determining the concentrations at which each compound inhibits the activity to a predefined extent and then comparing the results. Typically the preferred determination is the concentration that inhibits 50 of the activity in a biochemical assay i.e. the 50 inhibitory concentration or IC . Determination of ICvalues can be accomplished using conventional techniques known in the art. In general an ICcan be determined by measuring the activity of a given enzyme in the presence of a range of concentrations of the inhibitor under study. The experimentally obtained values of enzyme activity then are plotted against the inhibitor concentrations used. The concentration of the inhibitor that shows 50 enzyme activity as compared to the activity in the absence of any inhibitor is taken as the ICvalue. Analogously other inhibitory concentrations can be defined through appropriate determinations of activity. For example in some settings it can be desirable to establish a 90 inhibitory concentration i.e. IC etc.

Exemplary Formula I compounds in Table 1 were made characterized and tested for binding to various isoforms and mutant forms of PI3K according to the methods of this invention and have the following structures corresponding names ChemBioDraw Version 12.0.2 CambridgeSoft Corp. Cambridge Mass. and biological activity. Where more than one name is associated with a Formula I compound or intermediate the chemical structure shall define the compound.

The compound known as taselisib GDC 0032 and Roche RG7604 CAS Reg. No. 1282512 48 4 Genentech Inc. has an IUPAC name 2 4 2 1 isopropyl 3 methyl 1H 1 2 4 triazol 5 yl 5 6 dihydrobenzo f imidazo 1 2 d 1 4 oxazepin 9 yl 1H pyrazol 1 yl 2 methylpropanamide and the structure 

Taselesib can be prepared and characterized as described in WO 2011 036280 U.S. Pat. Nos. 8 242 104 and 8 343 955.

The compound known as pictilisib GDC 0941 Roche RG 7321 and pictrelisib CAS Reg. No. 957054 30 7 Genentech Inc. is a potent multitargeted class I pan inhibitor of PI3K isoforms. GDC 0941 is currently in phase II clinical trials for the treatment of advanced solid tumors. GDC 0941 is named as 4 2 1H indazol 4 yl 6 4 methylsulfonyl piperazin 1 yl methyl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 4 yl morpholine U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 781 433 7 750 002 Folkes et al 2008 Jour. of Med. Chem. 51 18 5522 5532 and has the structure 

The compound known as alpelisib BYL719 Novartis CAS 1217486 61 7 is an oral selective inhibitor of the PI3K alpha isoform and is in clinical trials for the potential treatment of a variety of tumor types including a phase III study in combination with fulvestrant for second line hormone receptor positive HER2 advanced metastatic breast cancer Furet P. et al 2013 Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett. 23 3741 3748 U.S. Pat. Nos. 8 227 462 8 476 268 8 710 085 . Alpelisib is named as S N1 4 methyl 5 2 1 1 1 trifluoro 2 methylpropan 2 yl pyridin 4 yl thiazol 2 yl pyrrolidine 1 2 dicarboxamide and has the structure 

The ability of a compound of the invention to act as an inhibitor of PI3K with selectivity over PI3K PI3K and PI3K was determined using the methods of Example 901. The Ki values shown in Tables 2A and 2B represent the geometric mean of a minimum of three independent experiments unless otherwise noted.

Table 2A shows the biochemical inhibition of four PI3K isoforms by the Formula I compounds of Table 1. In addition two clinically tested PI3K compounds taselisib and pictilisib are included as comparators. The representative compounds of the invention exhibit strong activity against PI3K and exhibit significantly enhanced selectivity relative to the other isoforms PI3K PI3K and PI3K when compared to taselisib GDC 0032 and pictilisib GDC 0941 . In particular the selectivity ratios in the second from the right column of Table 2A show that each Formula I compounds 101 107 has a PI3K alpha to delta selectivity ratio far higher than taselisib or pictilisib. In fact both taselisib and pictilisib have stronger activity against PI3K delta than against PI3K alpha i.e. their selectivity ratios are less than 1. The selectivity ratios of Formula I compound 101 107 range from 301 fold to 634 fold.

Table 2B shows the biochemical inhibition of two PI3K isoforms alpha and delta and the PI3K alpha to delta selectivity ratios for certain comparator compounds of U.S. Pat. No. 8 242 104 and a compound bearing a dimethyloxazolidin 2 one group from U.S. Pat. No. 8 263 633 Compound 356 column 149 . The comparator compounds shown here in Table 2B are examples from the broad genuses described in each of U.S. Pat. Nos. 8 242 104 and 8 263 633. Neither U.S. Pat. Nos. 8 242 104 nor 8 263 633 disclose a compound within the scope of the Formula I compounds of the invention. While the representative comparator examples of U.S. Pat. No. 8 242 104 as described in Table 2B demonstrate PI3K alpha vs. PI3K delta selectivity ratios 1 the maximum observed selectivity ratio is 46.9 fold. Formula I compounds 101 107 therefore achieve significantly higher selectivity ratios than examples of U.S. Pat. No. 8 242 104. There is no guidance in either U.S. Pat. Nos. 8 242 104 or 8 263 633 to make the selection of structural elements of the Formula I compounds to achieve the property of high PI3K alpha selectivity versus PI3K delta. This unexpected property of greater than 300 fold PI3K alpha selectivity is conserved across the entire spectrum of the compounds exemplified in Table 1.

Current PI3K inhibitors in clinical trials such as taselisib WO 2011 036280 U.S. Pat. Nos. 8 242 104 8 343 955 and other representative examples of U.S. Pat. No. 8 242 104 exhibit significant activity against the PI3K delta isoform. This lack of selectivity vs. PI3K delta is consistent with observed GI toxicity in the clinic for taselisib. There exists a need for inhibitors of PI3K alpha that contain the favorable characteristics representative of examples of U.S. Pat. No. 8 242 104 that are simultaneously lacking activity against PI3K delta . The current invention provides compounds that meet this activity and selectivity profile.

The unexpected property of PI3K alpha selectivity is advantageous to remove gastrointestinal toxicity observed in clinical PI3K inhibitor candidates. Recent clinical data with PI3K inhibitors has implicated PI3K delta activity as a source of gastrointestinal toxicities Akinleye et al Phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase PI3K inhibitors as cancer therapeutics Journal of Hematology Oncology 2013 6 88 104 . See Table 2 of PI3K inhibitors in clinical trials taselisib and pictilisib.

With significantly higher selectivity for PI3K alpha inhibition relative to PI3K delta inhibition Formula I compounds 101 107 would therefore be expected to achieve a greater margin between clinical activity driven by PI3K alpha inhibition relative to toxicities driven by PI3K delta inhibition as compared to the clinically tested taselisib and pictilisib or any of the examples of U.S. Pat. Nos. 8 242 104 8 263 633. Accordingly Formula I compounds of the invention may be useful as therapeutic agents with a decreased toxicity profile relative to agents that exhibit greater inhibition of the normal functions of PI3K PI3K or PI3K .

A rational basis for PI3K selectivity by the Formula I compounds may reside in certain binding interactions.

The ability of a compound of the invention to interact specifically with PI3K was determined by solving the x ray co crystal structure of representative compounds with PI3K alpha using the methods of Example 908. Optimized structural design of PI3K inhibitors with selectivity for the PI3K isoform over other isoforms may include precise positioning and arrangement of atoms and functional groups to interact with isoform specific residues in the binding site. Particularly substitution at the 9 position and at the 2 position of the 5 6 dihydrobenzo f imidazo 1 2 d 1 4 oxazepine ring system are found to have critical impacts on specific activity of compounds against PI3K .

As shown in reference compound 529 U.S. Pat. No. 8 242 104 contains a primary amide functional group in a similar position to that of taselisib. This functionality is within appropriate distance and of appropriate geometry of both Ser854 and Gln859 to make hydrogen bonding interactions. The 46.9 fold selectivity ratio for PI3K relative to PI3K see Table 2B may be rationalized in light of these interactions and the knowledge that PI3K does not contain a Gln residue at position 859 and therefore these interactions should be specific to PI3K .

All compounds of the invention contain an oxazolidinone ring and are able to make the improved interaction with Tyr836 of PI3K alpha . Some examples of the invention also contain a fluorinated substituent on the oxazolidinone ring and are able to make the improved interaction with Ser774 of PI3K . Both of these binding interactions may contribute to the enhanced selectivity for PI3K observed for examples of the invention relative to examples of U.S. Pat. No. 8 242 104. As shown in Tables 2A and 2B compounds which contain the oxazolidinone ring have higher isoform selectivity than comparable compounds which contain the triazole ring. The residues Ser774 and Tyr836 are not unique to the PI3K isoform PI3K contains these same residues at the same positions and the enhanced isoform selectivity of the oxazolidinone inhibitors is not predicted by these crystal structures. Subtle differences in the positioning and orientation of the same residue identity between different isoforms may result from subtle changes in secondary and tertiary protein structure. These differences are difficult to predict and interpret even in the face of x ray crystal structures of both protein isoforms. The surprising and unexpected properties of improved molecular interactions and enhanced isoform selectivity of oxazolidinone inhibitors is conserved across the entire spectrum of the compounds exemplified in Table 1.

The oxazolidinone is structurally differentiated from the triazole in that the oxazolidinone has a carbonyl is more polar and does not have aromatic character. The triazole does not have a carbonyl group is less polar and has aromatic character.

The oxazolidinone ring provides a further benefit relative to the triazole ring in terms of increased sp3 character and reduced aromatic ring count. It is generally accepted in the literature that an increased number of aromatic rings is correlated with an increased risk of promiscuous binding. By contrast an increase in the fraction of sp3 carbons sp3 carbons total carbons is correlated with improved physicochemical properties and decreased promiscuous binding decreasing the risk of off target toxicology. These concepts are described in the references Lovering et. al Escape From Flatland 2009 J. Med. Chem. 52 6752 6756 and Ritchie and Macdonald Physicochemical Descriptors of Aromatic Character and Their Use in Drug Discovery 2014 J. Med. Chem. 57 7206 7215. The replacement of the triazole aromatic ring as exemplified by representatives of U.S. Pat. No. 8 242 104 with a saturated heterocyclic ring the oxazolidinone contained within every example of the invention represents a favorable decrease in the risk of off target toxicology. The entirety of exemplified compounds in U.S. Pat. No. 8 242 104 are overwhelmingly populated by compounds with aromatic rings at this position 4 examples of a carboxamide functional group replacing the aromatic ring and no examples of saturated cyclic or heterocyclic systems. Due to the significantly different binding interactions and steric requirements of aromatic and saturated heterocycles they are typically not interchangeable. With no examples of saturated heterocyclic systems at the 2 position of the 5 6 dihydrobenzo f imidazo 1 2 d 1 4 oxazepine ring U.S. Pat. No. 8 242 104 provides no guidance as to a method for replacing the aromatic ring with a saturated heterocycle while retaining activity against PI3K .

Accordingly compounds of the invention contain optimized substituents and functionality at both the 5 6 dihydrobenzo f imidazo 1 2 d 1 4 oxazepine 9 position and 2 position. These optimized compounds provide a significant and heretofore unknown benefit with respect to improved molecular interactions and increased selective activity against PI3K with reduced activity against PI3K . The compounds of the invention may be useful as therapeutic agents with an enhanced therapeutic window relative to related agents such as taselisib GDC 0032 .

The ability of a compound of the invention to act preferentially against cells containing mutant PI3K was determined by measuring inhibition of the PI3K pathway in SW48 isogenic cell lines PI3K wild type parental helical domain mutant E545K and kinase domain mutant H1047R as described in the methods of Example 902.

Statistical Analysis EC50 values represent the geometric mean of a minimum of 4 independent experiments unless otherwise noted. All statistics were performed using KaleidaGraph Software version 4.1.3 . A Student t Test was performed using unpaired data with equal variance to compare activity against mutant cells and wild type cells. P

Table 3A shows the inhibition of P PRAS40 in SW48 isogenic cells by the Formula I compounds of Table 1. These compounds all display increased activity against the mutant PI3K cells relative to the wild type PI3K cells. Compounds of the invention show similar activity as taselisib in SW48 mutant PI3K cells with equal or greater selectivity than taselisib relative to activity in the wild type PI3K cells see Table 3B .

Table 3B shows the inhibition of P PRAS40 in SW48 isogenic cells by certain comparator compounds of U.S. Pat. No. 8 242 104 a compound bearing a dimethyloxazolidin 2 one group from U.S. Pat. No. 8 263 633 Compound 356 column 149 and pictilisib. The comparator compounds shown here in Table 3B are examples from the broad genuses described in each of U.S. Pat. Nos. 8 242 104 and 8 263 633. Neither U.S. Pat. Nos. 8 242 104 nor 8 263 633 disclose a compound within the scope of the Formula I compounds of the invention. The comparator compounds contain examples that do not have significantly increased activity for the mutant PI3K cells relative to the wild type PI3K cells see comparator compounds 436 and 549 p 0.05 . These compounds are very structurally similar to comparator compounds that do exhibit significantly increased activity for the mutant PI3K cells relative to the wild type PI3K cell see comparator compound 529 . There is no common structural element within the comparator compounds that provides guidance towards selective inhibition of mutant PI3K alpha cells. More broadly there is no guidance in either U.S. Pat. Nos. 8 242 104 or 8 263 633 to make the selection of structural elements of the Formula I compounds to achieve increased or equivalent activity against the mutant PI3K cells relative to the wild type PI3K cells. This unexpected property is conserved across the entire spectrum of the compounds exemplified in Table 1.

The ability of a compound of the invention to act on PI3K mutant tumor cells was determined by measuring the cell viability EC50 in HCC1954 cells PI3K mutant H1047R and MCF7 cells PI3K mutant E545K using the methods of Example 903. Table 4 shows that representative Formula I compounds 101 and 103 of the invention are able to inhibit the PI3K pathway and inhibit proliferation in HCC1954 cells and MCF7 cells with a similar level of potency as comparator compounds taselisib compound 196 U.S. Pat. No. 8 242 104 pictilisib and compound 436 U.S. Pat. No. 8 242 104 .

Tables 5 8 show data from in vivo tumor growth inhibition TGI studies with PI3K compounds. Tumor volume change was measured for 20 days or more in cohorts of immunocompromised mice bearing breast cancer xenografts dosed daily by PO oral administration with vehicle and PI3K compounds Example 904 .

Table 5 shows that at maximum tolerated doses MTD GDC 0032 taselisib Compound 103 and Compound 101 are each more efficacious than alpelisib BYL 719 in a PI3K mutant tumor model.

Table 6 shows that at doses lower than maximum tolerated dose i.e. 25 mg kg Compound 101 is more efficacious than GDC 0032 in a PI3K mutant tumor model. There is potential for greater therapeutic index TI with Compound 101 since maximum efficacy is reached before maximum tolerability.

Table 7 shows that at maximum tolerated doses increased responses PRs and CRs are seen with Compound 101 compared to GDC 0032 in a PI3K mutant tumor model. Also at maximum tolerated doses GDC 0032 and BYL 719 are equally efficacious.

Table 8 shows that at maximum tolerated doses GDC 0032 and Compound 101 are more efficacious than BYL 719 and Compound 101 is approximately as efficacious as GDC 0032 in a PI3K mutant tumor model.

The ability of a compound of the invention to inhibit the PI3K pathway in B cells was assessed by influence of the compounds on CD69 levels post agonistic a IgM treatment using the methods of Example 906. The expression of CD69 in B cells resultant from a IgM treatment is believed to be driven by signaling through PI3K delta . Table 9 shows representative Formula 1 compounds are more selective inhibitors of pathway signaling in a PI3K mutant line SW48 H1047R vs. B cells column 3 compared to taselisib pictilisib alpelisib compound 436 US U.S. Pat. No. 8 242 104 and idelalisib.

The ability of a compound of the invention to inhibit PI3K pathway signaling in tumor cells was assessed by measuring p PRAS40 levels in HCC1954 PI3K mutant H1047R and HDQ P1 PI3K wild type lines using the methods of Example 907. Table 10 shows representative Formula 1 compounds 101 103 and 105 are able to inhibit the PI3K pathway selectively in PI3K mutant HCC1954 PI3K mutant H1047R vs. PI3K wild type tumor cells HDQ P1 PI3K wild type . Compounds 101 103 and 105 have greater mutant over wild type selectivity than comparator compounds taselisib pictilisib alpelisib and compound 436 U.S. Pat. No. 8 242 104 .

The ability of a compound of the invention to decrease p110 levels was determined in experiments with HCC1954 PI3K mutant H1047R and HDQ P1 PI3K wild type lines using the methods of Example 905. show representative Formula 1 compounds 101 and 103 able to promote reduction of p110 levels selectively in PI3K mutant HCC1954 PI3K mutant H1047R vs. PI3K wild type HDQ P1 PI3K wild type tumor cells in a concentration dependent manner. shows Western blot data depicting p110 p110 p110 alpha levels after 24 hour treatment with Compound 101 Compound 103 and Compound 436 of U.S. Pat. No. 8 242 104 in HCC 1954 cells PI3K mutant H1047R . shows Western blot data depicting p110 p110 p110 alpha levels after 24 hour treatment with Compound 101 Compound 103 and Compound 436 of U.S. Pat. No. 8 242 104 in HDQ P1 cells PI3K wild type . Compounds 101 and 103 more strongly influence p110 levels compared to compound 436 U.S. Pat. No. 8 242 104 .

The ability of a compound of the invention to promote gastrointestinal and or systemic inflammation or cause lymphoid depletion was assessed via clinical and anatomic pathology evaluation after multiple day dosing in Beagle dogs 7 14 days . Formula 1 compounds 101 and 103 at 5 fold free exposure multiples over TGI60 tumor growth inhibition 60 in a PI3K mutant xenograft study do not promote a pro inflammatory signature as determined by clinical pathology or anatomic pathology evaluation Table 11a 11b . Similarly compounds 101 and 103 produce only minor amounts of lymphoid depletion at high exposure multiples. In contrast experiments with comparator compound taselisib indicate significant pro inflammatory effects and lymphoid depletion at 

The compounds of the invention may be administered by any route appropriate to the condition to be treated. Suitable routes include oral parenteral including subcutaneous intramuscular intravenous intraarterial intradermal intrathecal and epidural transdermal rectal nasal topical including buccal and sublingual vaginal intraperitoneal intrapulmonary and intranasal. For local immunosuppressive treatment the compounds may be administered by intralesional administration including perfusing or otherwise contacting the graft with the inhibitor before transplantation. It will be appreciated that the preferred route may vary with for example the condition of the recipient. Where the compound is administered orally it may be formulated as a pill capsule tablet etc. with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient. Where the compound is administered parenterally it may be formulated with a pharmaceutically acceptable parenteral vehicle and in a unit dosage injectable form as detailed below.

A dose to treat human patients may range from about 1 mg to about 1000 mg of Formula I compound. A typical dose may be about 10 mg to about 300 mg of the compound. A dose may be administered once a day QID twice per day BID or more frequently depending on the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties including absorption distribution metabolism and excretion of the particular compound. In addition toxicity factors may influence the dosage and administration regimen. When administered orally the pill capsule or tablet may be ingested daily or less frequently for a specified period of time. The regimen may be repeated for a number of cycles of therapy.

Formula I compounds of the present invention are useful for treating a human or animal patient suffering from a disease or disorder arising from abnormal cell growth function or behavior associated with PI3K such as cancer may thus be treated by a method comprising the administration thereto of a compound of the present invention as defined above. A human or animal patient suffering from cancer may also be treated by a method comprising the administration thereto of a compound of the present invention as defined above. The condition of the patient may thereby be improved or ameliorated.

Methods of the invention also include treating cancer selected from breast ovary cervix prostate testis genitourinary tract esophagus larynx glioblastoma neuroblastoma stomach skin keratoacanthoma lung epidermoid carcinoma large cell carcinoma non small cell lung carcinoma NSCLC small cell carcinoma lung adenocarcinoma bone colon adenoma pancreas adenocarcinoma thyroid follicular carcinoma undifferentiated carcinoma papillary carcinoma seminoma melanoma sarcoma bladder carcinoma liver carcinoma and biliary passages kidney carcinoma pancreatic myeloid disorders lymphoma hairy cells buccal cavity naso pharyngeal pharynx lip tongue mouth small intestine colon rectum large intestine rectum brain and central nervous system Hodgkin s leukemia bronchus thyroid liver and intrahepatic bile duct hepatocellular gastric glioma glioblastoma endometrial melanoma kidney and renal pelvis urinary bladder uterine corpus uterine cervix multiple myeloma acute myelogenous leukemia chronic myelogenous leukemia lymphocytic leukemia chronic lymphoid leukemia CLL myeloid leukemia oral cavity and pharynx non Hodgkin lymphoma melanoma and villous colon adenoma.

Based on expression analysis immunohistochemical analysis and on cell line profiling malignancies of the colon breast cervix stomach lung and multiple myeloma are most likely to respond to PI3K modulators or inhibitors.

In order to use a compound of this invention for the therapeutic treatment of mammals including humans it is normally formulated in accordance with standard pharmaceutical practice as a pharmaceutical composition. According to this aspect of the invention there is provided a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of this invention in association with a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent or carrier.

A typical formulation is prepared by mixing a compound of the present invention and a carrier diluent or excipient. Suitable carriers diluents and excipients are well known to those skilled in the art and include materials such as carbohydrates waxes water soluble and or swellable polymers hydrophilic or hydrophobic materials gelatin oils solvents water and the like. The particular carrier diluent or excipient used will depend upon the means and purpose for which the compound of the present invention is being applied. Solvents are generally selected based on solvents recognized by persons skilled in the art as safe GRAS to be administered to a mammal. In general safe solvents are non toxic aqueous solvents such as water and other non toxic solvents that are soluble or miscible in water. Suitable aqueous solvents include water ethanol propylene glycol polyethylene glycols e.g. PEG 400 PEG 300 etc. and mixtures thereof. The formulations may also include one or more buffers stabilizing agents surfactants wetting agents lubricating agents emulsifiers suspending agents preservatives antioxidants opaquing agents glidants processing aids colorants sweeteners perfuming agents flavoring agents and other known additives to provide an elegant presentation of the drug i.e. a compound of the present invention or pharmaceutical composition thereof or aid in the manufacturing of the pharmaceutical product i.e. medicament .

The formulations may be prepared using conventional dissolution and mixing procedures. For example the bulk drug substance i.e. compound of the present invention or stabilized form of the compound e.g. complex with a cyclodextrin derivative or other known complexation agent is dissolved in a suitable solvent in the presence of one or more of the excipients described above. The compound of the present invention is typically formulated into pharmaceutical dosage forms to provide an easily controllable dosage of the drug and to enable patient compliance with the prescribed regimen.

The pharmaceutical composition or formulation for application may be packaged in a variety of ways depending upon the method used for administering the drug. Generally an article for distribution includes a container having deposited therein the pharmaceutical formulation in an appropriate form. Suitable containers are well known to those skilled in the art and include materials such as bottles plastic and glass sachets ampoules plastic bags metal cylinders and the like. The container may also include a tamper proof assemblage to prevent indiscreet access to the contents of the package. In addition the container has deposited thereon a label that describes the contents of the container. The label may also include appropriate warnings.

Pharmaceutical formulations of the compounds of the present invention may be prepared for various routes and types of administration. For example a compound of Formula I having the desired degree of purity may optionally be mixed with pharmaceutically acceptable diluents carriers excipients or stabilizers Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 1980 16th edition Osol A. Ed. in the form of a lyophilized formulation milled powder or an aqueous solution. Formulation may be conducted by mixing at ambient temperature at the appropriate pH and at the desired degree of purity with physiologically acceptable carriers i.e. carriers that are non toxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed. The pH of the formulation depends mainly on the particular use and the concentration of compound but may range from about 3 to about 8. Formulation in an acetate buffer at pH 5 is a suitable embodiment.

The compound ordinarily can be stored as a solid composition a lyophilized formulation or as an aqueous solution.

The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention will be formulated dosed and administered in a fashion i.e. amounts concentrations schedules course vehicles and route of administration consistent with good medical practice. Factors for consideration in this context include the particular disorder being treated the particular mammal being treated the clinical condition of the individual patient the cause of the disorder the site of delivery of the agent the method of administration the scheduling of administration and other factors known to medical practitioners. The therapeutically effective amount of the compound to be administered will be governed by such considerations and is the minimum amount necessary to ameliorate or treat the hyperproliferative disorder.

As a general proposition the initial pharmaceutically effective amount of the inhibitor administered parenterally per dose will be in the range of about 0.01 100 mg kg namely about 0.1 to 20 mg kg of patient body weight per day with the typical initial range of compound used being 0.3 to 15 mg kg day.

Acceptable diluents carriers excipients and stabilizers are nontoxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed and include buffers such as phosphate citrate and other organic acids antioxidants including ascorbic acid and methionine preservatives such as octadecyldimethylbenzyl ammonium chloride hexamethonium chloride benzalkonium chloride benzethonium chloride phenol butyl or benzyl alcohol alkyl parabens such as methyl or propyl paraben catechol resorcinol cyclohexanol 3 pentanol and m cresol low molecular weight less than about 10 residues polypeptides proteins such as serum albumin gelatin or immunoglobulins hydrophilic polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone amino acids such as glycine glutamine asparagine histidine arginine or lysine monosaccharides disaccharides and other carbohydrates including glucose mannose or dextrins chelating agents such as EDTA sugars such as sucrose mannitol trehalose or sorbitol salt forming counter ions such as sodium metal complexes e.g. Zn protein complexes and or non ionic surfactants such as TWEEN PLURONICS or polyethylene glycol PEG . The active pharmaceutical ingredients may also be entrapped in microcapsules prepared for example by coacervation techniques or by interfacial polymerization for example hydroxymethylcellulose or gelatin microcapsules and poly methylmethacylate microcapsules respectively in colloidal drug delivery systems for example liposomes albumin microspheres microemulsions nano particles and nanocapsules or in macroemulsions. Such techniques are disclosed in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 16th edition Osol A. Ed. 1980 .

Sustained release preparations of compounds of Formula I may be prepared. Suitable examples of sustained release preparations include semipermeable matrices of solid hydrophobic polymers containing a compound of Formula I which matrices are in the form of shaped articles e.g. films or microcapsules. Examples of sustained release matrices include polyesters hydrogels for example poly 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate or poly vinyl alcohol polylactides U.S. Pat. No. 3 773 919 copolymers of L glutamic acid and gamma ethyl L glutamate non degradable ethylene vinyl acetate degradable lactic acid glycolic acid copolymers such as the LUPRON DEPOT injectable microspheres composed of lactic acid glycolic acid copolymer and leuprolide acetate and poly D 3 hydroxybutyric acid.

The formulations include those suitable for the administration routes detailed herein. The formulations may conveniently be presented in unit dosage form and may be prepared by any of the methods well known in the art of pharmacy. Techniques and formulations generally are found in Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. . Such methods include the step of bringing into association the active ingredient with the carrier which constitutes one or more accessory ingredients. In general the formulations are prepared by uniformly and intimately bringing into association the active ingredient with liquid carriers or finely divided solid carriers or both and then if necessary shaping the product.

Formulations of a compound of Formula I suitable for oral administration may be prepared as discrete units such as pills capsules cachets or tablets each containing a predetermined amount of a compound of Formula I. Compressed tablets may be prepared by compressing in a suitable machine the active ingredient in a free flowing form such as a powder or granules optionally mixed with a binder lubricant inert diluent preservative surface active or dispersing agent. Molded tablets may be made by molding in a suitable machine a mixture of the powdered active ingredient moistened with an inert liquid diluent. The tablets may optionally be coated or scored and optionally are formulated so as to provide slow or controlled release of the active ingredient therefrom. Tablets troches lozenges aqueous or oil suspensions dispersible powders or granules emulsions hard or soft capsules e.g. gelatin capsules syrups or elixirs may be prepared for oral use. Formulations of compounds of Formula I intended for oral use may be prepared according to any method known to the art for the manufacture of pharmaceutical compositions and such compositions may contain one or more agents including sweetening agents flavoring agents coloring agents and preserving agents in order to provide a palatable preparation. Tablets containing the active ingredient in admixture with non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable excipient which are suitable for manufacture of tablets are acceptable. These excipients may be for example inert diluents such as calcium or sodium carbonate lactose calcium or sodium phosphate granulating and disintegrating agents such as maize starch or alginic acid binding agents such as starch gelatin or acacia and lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate stearic acid or talc. Tablets may be uncoated or may be coated by known techniques including microencapsulation to delay disintegration and adsorption in the gastrointestinal tract and thereby provide a sustained action over a longer period. For example a time delay material such as glyceryl monostearate or glyceryl distearate alone or with a wax may be employed.

For treatment of the eye or other external tissues e.g. mouth and skin the formulations are preferably applied as a topical ointment or cream containing the active ingredient s in an amount of for example 0.075 to 20 w w. When formulated in an ointment the active ingredients may be employed with either a paraffinic or a water miscible ointment base. Alternatively the active ingredients may be formulated in a cream with an oil in water cream base. If desired the aqueous phase of the cream base may include a polyhydric alcohol i.e. an alcohol having two or more hydroxyl groups such as propylene glycol butane 1 3 diol mannitol sorbitol glycerol and polyethylene glycol including PEG 400 and mixtures thereof. The topical formulations may desirably include a compound which enhances absorption or penetration of the active ingredient through the skin or other affected areas. Examples of such dermal penetration enhancers include dimethyl sulfoxide and related analogs. The oily phase of the emulsions of this invention may be constituted from known ingredients in a known manner. While the phase may comprise merely an emulsifier it desirably comprises a mixture of at least one emulsifier with a fat or an oil or with both a fat and an oil. Preferably a hydrophilic emulsifier is included together with a lipophilic emulsifier which acts as a stabilizer. It is also preferred to include both an oil and a fat. Together the emulsifier s with or without stabilizer s make up the so called emulsifying wax and the wax together with the oil and fat make up the so called emulsifying ointment base which forms the oily dispersed phase of the cream formulations. Emulsifiers and emulsion stabilizers suitable for use in the formulation of the invention include Tween 60 Span 80 cetostearyl alcohol benzyl alcohol myristyl alcohol glyceryl mono stearate and sodium lauryl sulfate.

Aqueous suspensions of Formula I compounds contain the active materials in admixture with excipients suitable for the manufacture of aqueous suspensions. Such excipients include a suspending agent such as sodium carboxymethylcellulose croscarmellose povidone methylcellulose hydroxypropyl methylcellulose sodium alginate polyvinylpyrrolidone gum tragacanth and gum acacia and dispersing or wetting agents such as a naturally occurring phosphatide e.g. lecithin a condensation product of an alkylene oxide with a fatty acid e.g. polyoxyethylene stearate a condensation product of ethylene oxide with a long chain aliphatic alcohol e.g. heptadecaethyleneoxycetanol a condensation product of ethylene oxide with a partial ester derived from a fatty acid and a hexitol anhydride e.g. polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate . The aqueous suspension may also contain one or more preservatives such as ethyl or n propyl p hydroxybenzoate one or more coloring agents one or more flavoring agents and one or more sweetening agents such as sucrose or saccharin.

The pharmaceutical compositions of compounds of Formula I may be in the form of a sterile injectable preparation such as a sterile injectable aqueous or oleaginous suspension. This suspension may be formulated according to the known art using those suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents which have been mentioned above. The sterile injectable preparation may also be a sterile injectable solution or suspension in a non toxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent such as a solution in 1 3 butanediol or prepared as a lyophilized powder. Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents that may be employed are water Ringer s solution and isotonic sodium chloride solution. In addition sterile fixed oils may conventionally be employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For this purpose any bland fixed oil may be employed including synthetic mono or diglycerides. In addition fatty acids such as oleic acid may likewise be used in the preparation of injectables.

The amount of active ingredient that may be combined with the carrier material to produce a single dosage form will vary depending upon the host treated and the particular mode of administration. For example a time release formulation intended for oral administration to humans may contain approximately 1 to 1000 mg of active material compounded with an appropriate and convenient amount of carrier material which may vary from about 5 to about 95 of the total compositions weight weight . The pharmaceutical composition can be prepared to provide easily measurable amounts for administration. For example an aqueous solution intended for intravenous infusion may contain from about 3 to 500 g of the active ingredient per milliliter of solution in order that infusion of a suitable volume at a rate of about 30 mL hr can occur.

Formulations suitable for parenteral administration include aqueous and non aqueous sterile injection solutions which may contain anti oxidants buffers bacteriostats and solutes which render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient and aqueous and non aqueous sterile suspensions which may include suspending agents and thickening agents.

Formulations suitable for topical administration to the eye also include eye drops wherein the active ingredient is dissolved or suspended in a suitable carrier especially an aqueous solvent for the active ingredient. The active ingredient is preferably present in such formulations in a concentration of about 0.5 to 20 w w for example about 0.5 to 10 w w for example about 1.5 w w.

Formulations suitable for topical administration in the mouth include lozenges comprising the active ingredient in a flavored basis usually sucrose and acacia or tragacanth pastilles comprising the active ingredient in an inert basis such as gelatin and glycerin or sucrose and acacia and mouthwashes comprising the active ingredient in a suitable liquid carrier.

Formulations for rectal administration may be presented as a suppository with a suitable base comprising for example cocoa butter or a salicylate.

Formulations suitable for intrapulmonary or nasal administration have a particle size for example in the range of 0.1 to 500 microns including particle sizes in a range between 0.1 and 500 microns in increments microns such as 0.5 1 30 microns 35 microns etc. which is administered by rapid inhalation through the nasal passage or by inhalation through the mouth so as to reach the alveolar sacs. Suitable formulations include aqueous or oily solutions of the active ingredient. Formulations suitable for aerosol or dry powder administration may be prepared according to conventional methods and may be delivered with other therapeutic agents such as compounds heretofore used in the treatment or prophylaxis disorders as described below.

Formulations suitable for vaginal administration may be presented as pessaries tampons creams gels pastes foams or spray formulations containing in addition to the active ingredient such carriers as are known in the art to be appropriate.

The formulations may be packaged in unit dose or multi dose containers for example sealed ampoules and vials and may be stored in a freeze dried lyophilized condition requiring only the addition of the sterile liquid carrier for example water for injection immediately prior to use. Extemporaneous injection solutions and suspensions are prepared from sterile powders granules and tablets of the kind previously described. Preferred unit dosage formulations are those containing a daily dose or unit daily sub dose as herein above recited or an appropriate fraction thereof of the active ingredient.

The invention further provides veterinary compositions comprising at least one active ingredient as above defined together with a veterinary carrier therefore. Veterinary carriers are materials useful for the purpose of administering the composition and may be solid liquid or gaseous materials which are otherwise inert or acceptable in the veterinary art and are compatible with the active ingredient. These veterinary compositions may be administered parenterally orally or by any other desired route.

The compounds of Formula I may be employed alone or in combination with additional therapeutic agents for the treatment of a disease or disorder described herein such as inflammation or a hyperproliferative disorder e.g. cancer . In certain embodiments a compound of Formula I is combined in a pharmaceutical combination formulation or dosing regimen as combination therapy with an additional second therapeutic compound that has anti inflammatory or anti hyperproliferative properties or that is useful for treating an inflammation immune response disorder or hyperproliferative disorder e.g. cancer . The additional therapeutic may be a Bcl 2 inhibitor a JAK inhibitor an anti inflammatory agent an immunomodulatory agent chemotherapeutic agent an apoptosis enhancer a neurotropic factor an agent for treating cardiovascular disease an agent for treating liver disease an anti viral agent an agent for treating blood disorders an agent for treating diabetes and an agent for treating immunodeficiency disorders. The second therapeutic agent may be an NSAID anti inflammatory agent. The second therapeutic agent may be a chemotherapeutic agent. The second compound of the pharmaceutical combination formulation or dosing regimen preferably has complementary activities to the compound of Formula I such that they do not adversely affect each other. Such compounds are suitably present in combination in amounts that are effective for the purpose intended. In one embodiment a composition of this invention comprises a compound of Formula I or a stereoisomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof in combination with a therapeutic agent such as an NSAID.

The combination therapy may be administered as a simultaneous or sequential regimen. When administered sequentially the combination may be administered in two or more administrations. The combined administration includes coadministration using separate formulations or a single pharmaceutical formulation and consecutive administration in either order wherein preferably there is a time period while both or all active agents simultaneously exert their biological activities.

Suitable dosages for any of the above coadministered agents are those presently used and may be lowered due to the combined action synergy of the newly identified agent and other therapeutic agents or treatments.

The combination therapy may provide synergy and prove synergistic i.e. the effect achieved when the active ingredients used together is greater than the sum of the effects that results from using the compounds separately. A synergistic effect may be attained when the active ingredients are 1 co formulated and administered or delivered simultaneously in a combined unit dosage formulation 2 delivered by alternation or in parallel as separate formulations or 3 by some other regimen. When delivered in alternation therapy a synergistic effect may be attained when the compounds are administered or delivered sequentially e.g. by different injections in separate syringes separate pills or capsules or separate infusions. In general during alternation therapy an effective dosage of each active ingredient is administered sequentially i.e. serially whereas in combination therapy effective dosages of two or more active ingredients are administered together.

In a particular embodiment of therapy a compound of Formula I or a stereoisomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof may be combined with other therapeutic hormonal or antibody agents such as those described herein as well as combined with surgical therapy and radiotherapy. Combination therapies according to the present invention thus comprise the administration of at least one compound of Formula I or a stereoisomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof and the use of at least one other cancer treatment method. The amounts of the compound s of Formula I and the other pharmaceutically active therapeutic agent s and the relative timings of administration will be selected in order to achieve the desired combined therapeutic effect.

Additional therapeutic agents employed in combination with a compound of Formula I include 5 FU docetaxel eribulin gemcitabine cobimetinib ipatasertib paclitaxel tamoxifen fulvestrant GDC 0810 dexamethasone palbociclib bevacizumab pertuzumab trastuzumab emtansine trastuzumab and letrozole.

Also falling within the scope of this invention are the in vivo metabolic products of Formula I described herein. Such products may result for example from the oxidation reduction hydrolysis amidation deamidation esterification deesterification enzymatic cleavage and the like of the administered compound. Accordingly the invention includes metabolites of compounds of Formula I including compounds produced by a process comprising contacting a compound of this invention with a mammal for a period of time sufficient to yield a metabolic product thereof

Metabolite products typically are identified by preparing a radiolabelled e.g. C or H isotope of a compound of the invention administering it parenterally in a detectable dose e.g. greater than about 0.5 mg kg to an animal such as rat mouse guinea pig monkey or to man allowing sufficient time for metabolism to occur typically about 30 seconds to 30 hours and isolating its conversion products from the urine blood or other biological samples. These products are easily isolated since they are labeled others are isolated by the use of antibodies capable of binding epitopes surviving in the metabolite . The metabolite structures are determined in conventional fashion e.g. by MS LC MS or NMR analysis. In general analysis of metabolites is done in the same way as conventional drug metabolism studies well known to those skilled in the art. The metabolite products so long as they are not otherwise found in vivo are useful in diagnostic assays for therapeutic dosing of the compounds of the invention.

In another embodiment of the invention an article of manufacture or kit containing materials useful for the treatment of the diseases and disorders described above is provided. In one embodiment the kit comprises a container comprising a compound of Formula I or a stereoisomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof. The kit may further comprise a label or package insert on or associated with the container. The term package insert is used to refer to instructions customarily included in commercial packages of therapeutic products that contain information about the indications usage dosage administration contraindications and or warnings concerning the use of such therapeutic products. Suitable containers include for example bottles vials syringes blister pack etc. The container may be formed from a variety of materials such as glass or plastic. The container may hold a compound of Formula I or a formulation thereof which is effective for treating the condition and may have a sterile access port for example the container may be an intravenous solution bag or a vial having a stopper pierceable by a hypodermic injection needle . At least one active agent in the composition is a compound of Formula I. The label or package insert indicates that the composition is used for treating the condition of choice such as cancer. In addition the label or package insert may indicate that the patient to be treated is one having a disorder such as a hyperproliferative disorder neurodegeneration cardiac hypertrophy pain migraine or a neurotraumatic disease or event. In one embodiment the label or package inserts indicates that the composition comprising a compound of Formula I can be used to treat a disorder resulting from abnormal cell growth. The label or package insert may also indicate that the composition can be used to treat other disorders. Alternatively or additionally the article of manufacture may further comprise a second container comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable buffer such as bacteriostatic water for injection BWFI phosphate buffered saline Ringer s solution and dextrose solution. It may further include other materials desirable from a commercial and user standpoint including other buffers diluents filters needles and syringes.

The kit may further comprise directions for the administration of the compound of Formula I and if present the second pharmaceutical formulation. For example if the kit comprises a first composition comprising a compound of Formula I and a second pharmaceutical formulation the kit may further comprise directions for the simultaneous sequential or separate administration of the first and second pharmaceutical compositions to a patient in need thereof

In another embodiment the kits are suitable for the delivery of solid oral forms of a compound of Formula I such as tablets or capsules. Such a kit preferably includes a number of unit dosages. Such kits can include a card having the dosages oriented in the order of their intended use. An example of such a kit is a blister pack . Blister packs are well known in the packaging industry and are widely used for packaging pharmaceutical unit dosage forms. If desired a memory aid can be provided for example in the form of numbers letters or other markings or with a calendar insert designating the days in the treatment schedule in which the dosages can be administered.

According to one embodiment a kit may comprise a a first container with a compound of Formula I contained therein and optionally b a second container with a second pharmaceutical formulation contained therein wherein the second pharmaceutical formulation comprises a second compound with anti hyperproliferative activity. Alternatively or additionally the kit may further comprise a third container comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable buffer such as bacteriostatic water for injection BWFI phosphate buffered saline Ringer s solution and dextrose solution. It may further include other materials desirable from a commercial and user standpoint including other buffers diluents filters needles and syringes.

In certain other embodiments wherein the kit comprises a composition of Formula I and a second therapeutic agent the kit may comprise a container for containing the separate compositions such as a divided bottle or a divided foil packet however the separate compositions may also be contained within a single undivided container. Typically the kit comprises directions for the administration of the separate components. The kit form is particularly advantageous when the separate components are preferably administered in different dosage forms e.g. oral and parenteral are administered at different dosage intervals or when titration of the individual components of the combination is desired by the prescribing physician.

Compounds of Formula I may be synthesized by synthetic routes that include processes analogous to those well known in the chemical arts particularly in light of the description contained herein and those for other heterocycles described in Comprehensive Heterocyclic Chemistry II Editors Katritzky and Rees Elsevier 1997 e.g. Volume 3 Liebigs Annalen der Chemie 9 1910 16 1985 Helvetica Chimica Acta 41 1052 60 1958 Arzneimittel Forschung 40 12 1328 31 1990 each of which are expressly incorporated by reference. Starting materials are generally available from commercial sources such as Aldrich Chemicals Milwaukee Wis. or are readily prepared using methods well known to those skilled in the art e.g. prepared by methods generally described in Louis F. Fieser and Mary Fieser v. 1 23 Wiley N.Y. 1967 2006 ed. or 4 Aufl. ed. Springer Verlag Berlin including supplements also available via the Beilstein online database .

Synthetic chemistry transformations and protecting group methodologies protection and deprotection useful in synthesizing Formula I compounds and necessary reagents and intermediates are known in the art and include for example those described in R. Larock Comprehensive Organic Transformations VCH Publishers 1989 T. W. Greene and P. G. M. Wuts Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis 3Ed. John Wiley and Sons 1999 and L. Paquette ed. Encyclopedia of Reagents for Organic Synthesis John Wiley and Sons 1995 and subsequent editions thereof.

The Examples provide exemplary methods for preparing Formula I compounds. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that other synthetic routes may be used to synthesize the Formula I compounds. Although specific starting materials and reagents are depicted and discussed in the Figures and Examples other starting materials and reagents can be easily substituted to provide a variety of derivatives and or reaction conditions. In addition many of the exemplary compounds prepared by the described methods can be further modified in light of this disclosure using conventional chemistry well known to those skilled in the art.

In preparing compounds of Formulas I protection of remote functionality e.g. primary or secondary amine of intermediates may be necessary. The need for such protection will vary depending on the nature of the remote functionality and the conditions of the preparation methods. Suitable amino protecting groups include acetyl trifluoroacetyl t butoxycarbonyl BOC benzyloxycarbonyl CBz and 9 fluorenylmethyleneoxycarbonyl Fmoc . The need for such protection is readily determined by one skilled in the art. For a general description of protecting groups and their use see T. W. Greene Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis John Wiley Sons New York 1991.

In the methods of preparing Formula I compounds it may be advantageous to separate reaction products from one another and or from starting materials. The desired products of each step or series of steps is separated and or purified to the desired degree of homogeneity by the techniques common in the art. Typically such separations involve multiphase extraction crystallization from a solvent or solvent mixture distillation sublimation or chromatography. Chromatography can involve any number of methods including for example reverse phase and normal phase size exclusion ion exchange high medium and low pressure liquid chromatography methods and apparatus small scale analytical simulated moving bed SMB and preparative thin or thick layer chromatography as well as techniques of small scale thin layer and flash chromatography.

Another class of separation methods involves treatment of a mixture with a reagent selected to bind to or render otherwise separable a desired product unreacted starting material reaction by product or the like. Such reagents include adsorbents or absorbents such as activated carbon molecular sieves ion exchange media or the like. Alternatively the reagents can be acids in the case of a basic material bases in the case of an acidic material binding reagents such as antibodies binding proteins selective chelators such as crown ethers liquid liquid ion extraction reagents LIX or the like. Selection of appropriate methods of separation depends on the nature of the materials involved such as boiling point and molecular weight in distillation and sublimation presence or absence of polar functional groups in chromatography stability of materials in acidic and basic media in multiphase extraction and the like.

Diastereomeric mixtures can be separated into their individual diastereomers on the basis of their physical chemical differences by methods well known to those skilled in the art such as by chromatography and or fractional crystallization. Enantiomers can be separated by converting the enantiomeric mixture into a diastereomeric mixture by reaction with an appropriate optically active compound e.g. chiral auxiliary such as a chiral alcohol or Mosher s acid chloride separating the diastereomers and converting e.g. hydrolyzing the individual diastereoisomers to the corresponding pure enantiomers. Also some of the compounds of the present invention may be atropisomers e.g. substituted biaryls and are considered as part of this invention. Enantiomers can also be separated by use of a chiral HPLC column.

A single stereoisomer e.g. an enantiomer substantially free of its stereoisomer may be obtained by resolution of the racemic mixture using a method such as formation of diastereomers using optically active resolving agents Eliel E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1994 Lochmuller C. H. 1975 J. Chromatogr. 113 3 283 302 . Racemic mixtures of chiral compounds of the invention can be separated and isolated by any suitable method including 1 formation of ionic diastereomeric salts with chiral compounds and separation by fractional crystallization or other methods 2 formation of diastereomeric compounds with chiral derivatizing reagents separation of the diastereomers and conversion to the pure stereoisomers and 3 separation of the substantially pure or enriched stereoisomers directly under chiral conditions. See Drug Stereochemistry Analytical Methods and Pharmacology Irving W. Wainer Ed. Marcel Dekker Inc. New York 1993 .

Under method 1 diastereomeric salts can be formed by reaction of enantiomerically pure chiral bases such as brucine quinine ephedrine strychnine methyl phenylethylamine amphetamine and the like with asymmetric compounds bearing acidic functionality such as carboxylic acid and sulfonic acid. The diastereomeric salts may be induced to separate by fractional crystallization or ionic chromatography. For separation of the optical isomers of amino compounds addition of chiral carboxylic or sulfonic acids such as camphorsulfonic acid tartaric acid mandelic acid or lactic acid can result in formation of the diastereomeric salts.

Alternatively by method 2 the substrate to be resolved is reacted with one enantiomer of a chiral compound to form a diastereomeric pair E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. 1994 p. 322 . Diastereomeric compounds can be formed by reacting asymmetric compounds with enantiomerically pure chiral derivatizing reagents such as menthyl derivatives followed by separation of the diastereomers and hydrolysis to yield the pure or enriched enantiomer. A method of determining optical purity involves making chiral esters such as a menthyl ester e.g. menthyl chloroformate in the presence of base or Mosher ester methoxy trifluoromethyl phenyl acetate Jacob III. J. Org. Chem. 1982 47 4165 of the racemic mixture and analyzing the H NMR spectrum for the presence of the two atropisomeric enantiomers or diastereomers. Stable diastereomers of atropisomeric compounds can be separated and isolated by normal and reverse phase chromatography following methods for separation of atropisomeric naphthyl isoquinolines WO 96 15111 . By method 3 a racemic mixture of two enantiomers can be separated by chromatography using a chiral stationary phase Chiral Liquid Chromatography 1989 W. J. Lough Ed. Chapman and Hall New York Okamoto J. Chromatogr. 1990 513 375 378 . Enriched or purified enantiomers can be distinguished by methods used to distinguish other chiral molecules with asymmetric carbon atoms such as optical rotation and circular dichroism.

As shown in Scheme 1 4 bromo 2 hydroxybenzaldehyde 2 may be obtained by formylating commercially available 3 bromophenol. Heating 2 with oxaldehyde and ammonium hydroxide affords 3. The oxazepin ring may be formed by heating 3 with 1 2 dibromoethane. Bis iodination may be induced by reaction with N iodosuccinimide and the 3 iodo group selectively removed through treatment with ethyl magnesium bromide at reduced temperature to afford 6.

As shown in Scheme 2 6 may be coupled to an appropriately substituted oxazolidin 2 one using copper catalysis to provide 7. Bromo intermediate 7 may be coupled to appropriately substituted amino acids under copper catalysis followed by HATU mediated amide coupling with ammonium chloride to provide compounds 8.

LCMS Method A Experiments performed on a Waters Micromass ZQ2000 quadrupole mass spectrometer linked to a Waters Acquity UPLC system with a PDA UV detector. The spectrometer has an electrospray source operating in positive and negative ion mode. This system uses an Acquity BEH C18 1.7 um 100 2.1 mm column maintained at 40 C. or an Acquity BEH Shield RP18 1.7 m 100 2.1 mm column maintained at 40 C. and a 0.4 mL minute flow rate. The initial solvent system was 95 water containing 0.1 formic acid solvent A and 5 acetonitrile containing 0.1 formic acid solvent B for the first 0.4 minute followed by a gradient up to 5 solvent A and 95 solvent B over the next 5.6 minutes. This was maintained for 0.8 minutes before returning to 95 solvent A and 5 solvent B over the next 0.2 minutes. Total run time was 8 minutes.

LCMS Method B Experiments performed on an Agilent 1100 HPLC coupled with Agilent MSD mass spectrometer using ESI as ionization source. The LC separation was using a Phenomenex XB C18 1.7 mm 50 2.1 mm column with a 0.4 mL minute flow rate. Solvent A is water with 0.1 formic acid and solvent B is acetonitrile with 0.1 formic acid. The gradient consisted with 2 98 solvent B over 7 minutes and hold 97 B for 1.5 minutes following equilibration for 1.5 minutes. LC column temperature is 40 C. UV absorbance was collected at 220 nm and 254 nm and mass spec full scan was applied to all experiments.

Into a 20 L 4 necked round bottom flask purged and maintained with an inert atmosphere of nitrogen was placed 3 bromophenol 1300 g 7.51 mol dichloromagnesium 1078 g 11.3 mol triethylamine 3034 g 30.0 mol and acetonitrile 7.8 L . The mixture was stirred for 30 minutes at 40 C. To the mixture was added paraformaldehyde 676 g 22.6 mol at 80 C. The resulting solution was stirred for 6 hours at 76 C. This reaction was repeated 5 times. The combined reaction mixtures were quenched by the addition of 12 L of aqueous hydrogen chloride 4 N . The pH value of the solution was adjusted to 5 with concentrated aqueous hydrogen chloride 12 N . The resulting solution was extracted with 1 20 L of ethyl acetate. The organic extracts were evaporated in vacuo. The residue was purified via flash chromatography on silica gel eluted 15 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether to give crude product which was washed with 2.4 L of methyl tert butyl ether hexane 1 4 . The resultant solids were collected by filtration to yield 7.0 kg 78 of the title compound as a yellow solid.

Into a 20 L 4 necked round bottom flask was placed a solution of 4 bromo 2 hydroxybenzaldehyde 700 g 3.50 mol in methanol 7.0 L and oxaldehyde 40 2540 g 17.5 mol followed by the dropwise addition over 4 hours of aqueous ammonia 25 28 3500 g with stirring and maintaining the temperature below 40 C. The resulting solution was stirred for 15 hours at 30 35 C. This reaction was repeated 9 times. The combined 9 reaction mixtures were evaporated in vacuo keeping the temperature below 45 C. The residue was diluted with 100 L of ethyl acetate with stirring for 30 minutes. The solids were filtered out and the resulting solution was diluted with water. The aqueous phase was extracted with 35 L of ethyl acetate. The organic extracts were evaporated under vacuum and the residue was purified via flash chromatography on silica gel solvent gradient 5 75 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether to yield 2.4 kg 29 of the title compound as a yellow solid.

Into a 20 L 4 necked round bottom flask was placed a solution of 5 bromo 2 1H imidazol 2 yl phenol 1.4 kg 5.86 mol in N N dimethylformamide 14 L and cesium carbonate 7.2 kg 22.1 mol . The mixture was stirred for 20 minutes. To the reaction mixture was added 1 2 dibromoethane 4.1 kg 21.8 mol . The resulting solution was stirred for 4 12 hours at 85 90 C. cooled to 15 C. and filtered. The filter cake was washed with 3.0 L of ethyl acetate. The filtrate was diluted with 14 L of ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine 4 14 L dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and evaporated in vacuo to yield 1.1 kg 71 of the title compound as a light yellow solid. LCMS ESI M H 265 H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.32 d J 8.4 1H 7.35 7.24 m 3H 7.06 s 1H 4.47 4.42 m 4H .

Into a 20 L 4 necked round bottom flask was placed 9 bromo 5 6 dihydrobenzo f imidazo 1 2 d 1 4 oxazepine 2.5 kg 9.43 mol and N N dimethylformamide 12.5 L followed by the addition of N iodosuccinimide 6.0 kg 26.7 mol in several batches with stirring. The resulting solution was stirred for 12 hours at 60 C. cooled to 15 C. with a water ice bath diluted with 12.5 L of water ice and filtered. The filtered solids were recrystallized from petroleum ether to yield 4.0 kg 82 of the title compound as a yellow solid.

To a 20 L 4 necked round bottom flask purged and maintained with an inert atmosphere of nitrogen was placed 9 bromo 2 3 diiodo 5 6 dihydrobenzo f imidazo 1 2 d 1 4 oxazepine 800 g 1.55 mol and tetrahydrofuran 2.4 L followed by the dropwise addition of ethyl magnesium bromide 1 N solution in ether 1.7 L with stirring at 20 C. over 3.5 hours. The reaction mixture was stirred for 3 hours keeping the temperature at 15 C. using an ice salt bath. The resultant mixture was quenched by the addition of 3.0 L of saturated aqueous ammonium chloride and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 8.0 L . The combined organic extracts were washed with brine 2 10 L dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The crude residue was triturated with 8.0 L of ethyl acetate petroleum ether 1 5 filtered and washed with petroleum ether to yield 501 g 83 of the title compound as a brown solid. LCMS ESI M H 391 H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.22 d J 8.7 1H 7.55 s 1H 7.30 7.25 m 2H 4.45 4.41 m 4H .

Sodium periodate 57.0 g 270 mmol was dissolved in hot water 115 mL and silica 200 g 60 220 440 mesh particle size 35 75 m was added. The mixture was stirred vigorously until a free flowing powder was obtained. This was added to a solution of 1 2 5 6 bis O 1 methylethylidene D mannitol 50 g 190 mmol in dichloromethane 1.0 L and the reaction was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The resultant mixture was filtered through a pad of NaSOand the solids washed thoroughly with dichloromethane. The combined organic extracts were evaporated in vacuo to yield 37.2 g 75 of the title compound as a colorless oil. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 9.73 d J 1.9 Hz 1H 4.38 ddd J 7.4 4.7 1.9 Hz 1H 4.18 dd J 8.8 7.4 Hz 1H 4.10 dd J 8.8 4.7 Hz 1H 1.49 s 3H 1.43 s 3H .

To a solution of R 2 2 dimethyl 1 3 dioxolane 4 carbaldehyde 7.08 g 54 mmol in dichloromethane 50 mL cooled in a water bath was added dropwise diethylaminosulfur trifluoride 8.4 mL 62.6 mmol and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 hours. The resultant mixture was added dropwise to a rapidly stirring ice cold saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution. The mixture was further extracted with dichloromethane. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated in vacuo to yield 6.58 g 79 of the crude title compound as an orange oil. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 5.69 td J 55.8 4.9 Hz 1H 4.27 4.17 m 1H 4.16 4.03 m 2H 1.46 s 3H 1.38 s 3H .

HCl in dioxane 4 N 10.8 mL 43.2 mmol was added to a solution of R 4 difluoromethyl 2 2 dimethyl 1 3 dioxolane 6.58 g 43.2 mmol in methanol 40 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes. The resultant mixture was evaporated in vacuo and azeotroped with acetonitrile. The residue was dissolved in N N dimethylformamide 10 mL and tert butyldimethylsilyl chloride 6.53 g 43.2 mmol triethylamine 9.0 mL 64.9 mmol and 4 dimethylamino pyridine catalytic were added. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The resultant mixture was washed with water and then extracted with dichloromethane. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The resultant crude residue was purified via flash chromatography on silica gel solvent gradient 0 30 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane to yield 3.43 g 35 of the title compound as a yellow oil. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 5.66 td J 56.4 4.6 Hz 1H 3.76 3.60 m 2H 2.46 d J 6.4 Hz 1H 0.81 s 9H 0.00 s 6H .

Trifluoromethanesulfonic anhydride 2.9 mL 17.4 mmol was added dropwise to a solution of R 3 tert butyldimethylsilanyloxy 1 1 difluoropropan 2 ol 3.43 g 15.1 mmol and pyridine 2.0 mL 24.2 mmol in dichloromethane 50 mL at 20 C. and the reaction mixture stirred at 20 C. for 20 minutes and then at 0 C. for 1 hour. The resultant mixture was diluted with 0.5 N aqueous HCl and extracted with dichloromethane. The combined organic extracts were dried over magnesium sulfate and evaporated in vacuo. The crude residue was dissolved in N N dimethylformamide 10 mL sodium azide 2.96 g 45.5 mmol was added and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The resultant mixture was diluted with water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated in vacuo to yield 4.50 g of the crude title compound. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 5.74 td J 55.4 4.4 Hz 1H 3.81 3.71 m 2H 3.58 3.47 m 1H 0.81 s 9H 0.00 s 6H .

Palladium hydroxide on carbon 200 mg 20 was added to a solution of R 2 azido 3 3 difluoropropoxy tert butyldimethylsilane 4.50 g crude assume 15.1 mmol in ethyl acetate 20 mL and methanol 2.0 mL and the reaction stirred under a balloon of hydrogen for 16 hours. The reaction was filtered fresh palladium hydroxide on carbon 400 mg 20 added and the reaction mixture was stirred under a balloon of hydrogen for 16 hours. The resultant mixture was filtered and the filtrate was evaporated in vacuo to yield 3.08 g 90 of the crude title product as a colorless oil. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 5.66 td J 57.0 4.7 Hz 1H 3.71 3.57 m 2H 3.00 2.89 m 1H 1.42 br s 2H 0.82 s 9H 0.00 s 6H .

HCl in dioxane 4 N 5.0 mL 20 mmol was added to a solution of R 1 tert butyldimethylsilanyloxymethyl 2 2 difluoroethylamine . Vol. 9 No. 1 2007 41 44 2.30 g 10.3 mmol in methanol 5.0 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The mixture was evaporated in vacuo and the resultant oil was triturated with diethyl ether to give a solid which was dried in vacuo. The solid was dissolved in a mixture of toluene 20 mL and KOH 2.50 g 44.6 mmol in 20 mL water at 0 C. Phosgene 16.3 mL 20 in toluene was added dropwise the cooling bath was removed and the reaction mixture was stirred for 1 hour. The mixture was evaporated in vacuo the resultant residue was extracted with hot industrial methylated spirits and the solid was collected by filtration. The filtrate was evaporated in vacuo and the resultant residue was purified via flash chromatography on silica gel solvent gradient 0 100 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane to yield 830 mg 68 of the title compound as an off white solid. 10.1 c 2.37 CHCl . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 5.96 br s 1H 5.78 td J 55.3 4.8 Hz 1H 4.54 t J 9.2 Hz 1H 4.42 dd J 9.6 4.4 Hz 1H 4.17 4.06 m 1H .

A mixture of 9 bromo 2 iodo 5 6 dihydrobenzo f imidazo 1 2 d 1 4 oxazepine 250 mg 0.64 mmol S 4 difluoromethyloxazolidin 2 one 88 mg 0.64 mmol trans N N dimethyl 1 2 cyclohexane diamine 36 mg 0.26 mmol cuprous iodide 24 mg 0.13 mmol and potassium carbonate 177 mg 1.28 mmol in dioxane 3.0 mL was degassed with argon under sonication. The reaction mixture was heated at 100 C. for 5 h and then allowed to cool to room temperature. The resultant mixture was diluted with 15 aqueous ammonia and extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The resultant residue was triturated with methanol and then purified via preparative HPLC C18 60 acetonitrile 0.1 formic acid in water 0.1 formic acid 20 minute run to yield 20 mg 8 of the title compound as a white solid. LCMS ESI M H 400 402. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.19 d J 9.2 Hz 1H 7.29 s 1H 7.24 7.19 m 2H 6.65 ddd J 57.8 54.5 1.0 Hz 1H 4.87 ddd J 24.0 9.2 4.0 Hz 1H 4.73 dd J 9.5 4.2 Hz 1H 4.53 t J 9.2 Hz 1H 4.48 4.43 m 2H 4.38 4.33 m 2H .

 S 3 9 Bromo 5 6 dihydrobenzo f imidazo 1 2 d 1 4 oxazepin 2 yl 4 difluoromethyl oxazolidin 2 one 600 mg 1.50 mmol L alanine 267 mg 3.00 mmol cuprous iodide 57 mg 0.30 mmol and potassium phosphate tribasic 637 mg 3.00 mmol were suspended in dimethyl sulfoxide 6.0 mL . The reaction mixture was heated at 100 C. for 2 hours. Upon allowing to cool to room temperature dimethyl sulfoxide 4.0 mL ammonium chloride 480 mg 9.00 mmol and triethylamine 3.1 mL 22.5 mmol were added. To the resultant stirred suspension was added 1 bis dimethylamino methylene 1H 1 2 3 triazolo 4 5 b pyridinium 3 oxide hexafluorophosphate 5.10 g 13.5 mmol portion wise over 5 minutes. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour and then filtered through Celite washing with ethyl acetate. The organic extracts were washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and the aqueous phase was extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried over sodium sulfate filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The crude residue was purified via flash chromatography on silica gel solvent gradient 0 5 methanol in dichloromethane and then by chiral supercritical fluid chromatography to yield 294 mg 46 of 101 as an off white solid. LCMS ESI R 2.89 M H 408 Method A H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.00 d J 8.7 Hz 1H 7.38 br s 1H 7.18 s 1H 7.00 br s 1H 6.71 t J 55.9 Hz 1H 6.41 dd J 8.8 2.3 Hz 1H 6.16 d J 7.2 Hz 1H 6.09 d J 1.9 Hz 1H 5.02 4.89 m 1H 4.63 4.52 m 2H 4.39 4.30 m 4H 3.76 quintet J 7.0 Hz 1H 1.30 d J 7.1 Hz 3H .

To a mixture of D alaninol 8.65 g 0.12 mmol in toluene and aqueous KOH 124 mL 12.5 aq 0.28 mmol at 0 C. was added phosgene 72.7 mL 20 in toluene 0.14 mmol at such a rate that the internal temperature remained 

A mixture of 9 bromo 2 iodo 5 6 dihydrobenzo f imidazo 1 2 d 1 4 oxazepine 30.0 g 76.7 mmol R 4 methyloxazolidin 2 one 7.70 g 76.7 mmol cuprous iodide 1.61 g 8.40 mmol trans N N dimethyl 1 2 cyclohexane diamine 2.7 mL 16.9 mmol and potassium carbonate 14.9 g 107 mmol were suspended in 1 4 dioxane 200 mL and the reaction mixture degassed with argon under sonication. The resultant mixture was heated at 100 C. for 16 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with aqueous ammonia solution 16 and extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The resultant residue was purified via flash chromatography on silica gel solvent gradient 0 100 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane to yield 13.4 g 42 of the title compounds 2 1 mixture of 9 Br 9 I products . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.28 d J 7.6 Hz 0.33H 8.11 d J 6.9 Hz 0.66H 7.42 7.38 m 1H 7.28 7.24 m 1.33H 7.23 7.18 m 0.66H 4.77 4.68 m 1H 4.58 t J 8.3 Hz 1H 4.49 4.39 m 2H 4.37 4.30 m 2H 4.08 dd J 8.4 4.5 Hz 1H 1.57 1.50 m 3H .

80 mg of a mixture of R 3 9 Bromo 5 6 dihydrobenzo f imidazo 1 2 d 1 4 oxazepin 2 yl 4 methyloxazolidin 2 one and R 3 9 Iodo 5 6 dihydrobenzo f imidazo 1 2 d 1 4 oxazepin 2 yl 4 methyloxazolidin 2 one was separated via chiral SFC to yield 27.6 mg of the title compound. LCMS ESI M H 364.0 366.0 367.2 H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.22 d J 8.7 Hz 1H 7.35 s 1H 7.31 dd J 8.7 2.1 Hz 1H 7.25 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 4.65 4.54 m 2H 4.49 4.43 m 4H 4.09 4.06 m 1H 1.42 d J 6.0 Hz .

A mixture of 4R 3 9 bromo 5 6 dihydroimidazo 1 2 d 1 4 benzoxazepin 2 yl 4 methyl oxazolidin 2 one 0.2746 mmol 100 mg cuprous iodide 0.084 mmol 16 mg 25 2 amino 2 cyclobutyl acetic acid 1.10 mmol 142 mg and potassium phosphate tribasic 1.37 mmol 297 mg in dimethyl sulfoxide 3 mL were heated under microwave irradiation at 120 C. for 2 hours. The reaction was cooled to room temperature and iodomethane 1.4 mmol 0.086 mL was added and the reaction was extracted with dichloromethane and water. The combined organic extracts were combined washed with brine and dried with sodium sulfate filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The crude product was purified via flash chromatography on silica gel 24 g silica solvent gradient 5 40 3 1 isopropyl acetate methanol in dichloromethane to yield 100 mg 85 of the title compound.

To a solution of methyl 2S 2 cyclobutyl 2 2 4R 4 methyl 2 oxo oxazolidin 3 yl 5 6 dihydroimidazo 1 2 d 1 4 benzoxazepin 9 yl amino acetate 0.234 mmol 100 mg in tetrahydrofuran 5 mL was added water 0.45 mL and lithium hydroxide monohydrate 0.357 mmol 15 mg . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 6 hours. The reaction mixture was evaporated in vacuo. To a solution of the resulting residue in N N dimethylformamide 3 mL was added 1 bis dimethylamino methylene 1H 1 2 3 triazolo 4 5 b pyridinium 3 oxide hexafluorophosphate 0.353 mmol 137 mg ammonium chloride 0.71 mmol 38 mg and N N diisopropylethylamine 0.705 mmol 0.123 mL and the reaction mixture stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was evaporated in vacuo and the resultant residue treated with water then extracted with dichloromethane. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate and evaporated in vacuo. The crude product was purified via reverse phase HPLC followed by SFC and lyophilized to yield 15.0 mg 15 of 102. LCMS ESI R min 3.03 M H 412.2 method D H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.96 d J 8.8 Hz 1H 7.39 7.36 brs 1H 7.13 s 1H 7.00 6.97 brs 1H 6.44 dd J 8.9 2.3 Hz 1H 6.14 d J 2.3 Hz 1H 5.96 d J 7.7 Hz 1H 4.62 4.49 m 2H 4.38 4.28 m 4H 4.06 4.03 m 1H 3.70 3.61 m 1H 2.06 1.75 m 6H 1.42 1.34 m 3H .

A mixture of S 3 9 bromo 5 6 dihydrobenzo f imidazo 1 2 d 1 4 oxazepin 2 yl 4 difluoromethyl oxazolidin 2 one from Example 101 step 12 400 mg 1.00 mmol L cyclopropylglycine 230 mg 2.00 mmol cuprous iodide 38 mg 0.20 mmol and potassium phosphate tribasic 424 mg 2.00 mmol in dimethyl sulfoxide 2.0 mL were degassed with argon under sonication. The mixture was heated at 100 C. for 5 hours then cooled to ambient temperature. The resultant mixture was diluted with dimethyl sulfoxide 5.0 mL and ammonium chloride 320 mg 6.00 mmol and triethylamine 1.4 mL 10.0 mmol were added. To the stirred suspension was then added 1 bis dimethylamino methylene 1H 1 2 3 triazolo 4 5 b pyridinium 3 oxide hexafluorophosphate 2.28 g 6.0 mmol portion wise and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 10 minutes. The resultant mixture was diluted with 15 aqueous ammonia solution and extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The crude residue was purified via flash chromatography on silica gel solvent gradient 0 7 methanol in ethyl acetate . The residue was dissolved in a minimum of acetonitrile. Water was then added to precipitate a solid which was collected by filtration and dried in vacuo to yield 324 mg 75 of 103 as an off white solid. LCMS ESI R min 3.21 M H 434 Method A H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.98 d J 8.6 Hz 1H 7.40 br s 1H 7.17 s 1H 7.03 br s 1H 6.71 t J 56.0 Hz 1H 6.42 dd J 8.9 2.4 Hz 1H 6.24 d J 7.2 Hz 1H 6.09 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 5.01 4.89 m 1H 4.63 4.51 m 2H 4.38 4.29 m 4H 3.15 t J 7.7 Hz 1H 1.16 1.05 m 1H 0.56 0.44 m 3H 0.33 0.25 m 1H .

A mixture of R 3 9 bromo 5 6 dihydroimidazo 1 2 d 1 4 benzoxazepin 2 yl 4 methyl oxazolidin 2 one Example 102 step 3 1.098 mmol 400 mg cuprous iodide 0.330 mmol 62.8 mg 2S 2 amino 2 cyclopropyl acetic acid 3.295 mmol 379.3 mg and potassium phosphate tribasic 4.393 mmol 951.5 mg in dimethyl sulfoxide 35 mmol 2.5 mL was heated at 110 C. for 2 hours under microwave irradiation. The reaction was cooled to room temperature. To the reaction mixture was added 1 bis dimethylamino methylene 1H 1 2 3 triazolo 4 5 b pyridinium 3 oxide hexafluorophosphate 12.08 mmol 4260 mg ammonium chloride 12.08 mmol 646 mg and triethylamine 1.53 mL 11.0 mmol . After 20 minutes at room temperature the reaction mixture was treated with water then extracted with dichloromethane. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The crude product was purified via reverse phase HPLC and lyophilized to yield 110 mg 25 over 2 steps of 104. LCMS ESI R min 2.588 M H 398.2 method B H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.96 d J 8.8 Hz 1H 7.39 d J 2.2 Hz 1H 7.13 s 1H 7.02 d J 2.3 Hz 1H 6.42 dd J 8.9 2.4 Hz 1H 6.20 d J 7.1 Hz 1H 6.09 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 4.61 4.49 m 2H 4.40 4.27 m 4H 4.10 3.99 m 1H 3.22 3.09 m 1H 1.42 1.36 m 3H 1.16 1.04 m 1H 0.56 0.42 m 3H 0.32 0.27 m 1H .

Trifluoromethanesulfonic anhydride 1.67 mL 9.93 mmol was added dropwise to a solution of R 1 tert butyldimethylsilanyloxy 3 fluoropropan 2 ol 1.80 g 8.60 mmol and pyridine 1.2 mL 13.8 mmol in dichloromethane at 20 C. and the reaction mixture stirred at 20 C. for 20 minutes then at 0 C. for 30 minutes. The reaction mixture was diluted with 0.5 N aqueous HCl and extracted with dichloromethane. The combined organic extracts were dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The residue was dissolved in N N dimethylformamide 5.0 mL and sodium azide 1.68 g 25.9 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The resultant mixture was diluted with water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated in vacuo to yield the crude title compound which was carried forward without purification. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 4.58 4.26 m 2H 3.75 3.63 m 2H 3.62 3.46 m 1H 0.80 s 9H 0.00 s 6H .

Palladium hydroxide 400 mg 20 on carbon was added to a solution of S 2 azido 3 fluoropropoxy tert butyldimethylsilane crude assume 8.60 mmol in ethyl acetate 15 mL and methanol 5.0 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred under a balloon of hydrogen for 16 hours. The resultant mixture was filtered fresh palladium hydroxide 400 mg 20 on carbon was added and the reaction was stirred under a balloon of hydrogen for a further 16 hours. The resultant mixture was filtered and the filtrate was evaporated in vacuo to yield the title compound as a 2 1 mixture of product starting material which was carried forward without purification.

HCl in dioxane 4 N 2.0 mL 8.00 mmol was added to a solution of S 1 tert butyldimethyl silanyloxymethyl 2 fluoroethylamine crude assume 8.60 mmol in methanol 3.0 mL and the resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was evaporated in vacuo. The resultant residue was dissolved in a mixture of toluene 20 mL and KOH 2.89 g 51.6 mmol 12.5 aq at 0 C. To this mixture was added dropwise phosgene 13.6 mL 20 in toluene the cooling bath was removed and the resultant mixture was stirred for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was evaporated in vacuo and the resultant residue was extracted with hot industrial methylated spirits. The filtrate was evaporated in vacuo and the resultant residue was purified via flash chromatography on silica gel solvent gradient 50 100 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane to yield 450 mg 44 3 steps of the title compound as an off white solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 5.69 br s 1H 4.59 4.42 m 2H 4.42 4.32 m 1H 4.25 4.08 m 2H .

A mixture of 9 bromo 2 iodo 5 6 dihydrobenzo f imidazo 1 2 d 1 4 oxazepine 722 mg 1.85 mmol S 4 fluoromethyloxazolidin 2 one 220 mg 1.85 mmol 3 4 7 8 tetramethyl 1 10 phenanthroline 131 mg 0.55 mmol Cu OAc .HO 74 mg 0.37 mmol potassium carbonate 510 mg 3.70 mmol and dioxane 6.0 ml were sealed in a tube and the mixture degassed with argon under sonication. The reaction mixture was heated at 100 C. for 72 hours. The resultant reaction mixture was diluted with 15 aqueous ammonia and extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The crude residue was purified via flash chromatography on silica gel solvent gradient 0 100 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane to yield 390 mg 53 of the title compounds approximate 2 1 mixture of 9 Br and 9 I products . LCMS ESI M H 382 384 430 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.22 d J 9.3 Hz 0.7H 8.05 d J 8.8 Hz 0.3H 7.43 7.37 m 0.6H 7.29 s 1.2H 7.23 7.18 m 1.2H 5.03 4.66 m 3H 4.60 t J 8.5 Hz 1H 4.54 dd J 8.6 4.3 Hz 1H 4.47 4.43 m 2H 4.37 4.33 m 2H .

A mixture of S 3 9 bromo 5 6 dihydrobenzo f imidazo 1 2 d 1 4 oxazepin 2 yl 4 fluoromethyl oxazolidin 2 one and S 3 9 iodo 5 6 dihydrobenzo f imidazo 1 2 d 1 4 oxazepin 2 yl 4 fluoromethyl oxazolidin 2 one 195 mg 2 1 mix Br I 0.49 mmol L cyclopropylglycine 104 mg 0.90 mmol cuprous iodide 17 mg 0.09 mmol and potassium phosphate tribasic 190 mg 0.90 mmol in dimethyl sulfoxide 1.5 mL was degassed with argon under sonication. The reaction mixture was heated at 100 C. for 16 hours then cooled to room temperature. The resultant mixture was diluted with dimethyl sulfoxide 1.0 mL and ammonium chloride 144 mg 2.70 mmol and triethylamine 950 L 6.75 mmol were added. To this mixture was then added 1 bis dimethylamino methylene 1H 1 2 3 triazolo 4 5 b pyridinium 3 oxide hexafluorophosphate 1.54 g 4.05 mmol portion wise and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The resultant mixture was diluted with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution and extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The resultant crude residue was purified via flash chromatography on silica gel solvent gradient 0 5 methanol in dichloromethane and then further purified by flash chromatography on silica gel solvent gradient 0 100 methyl acetate in cyclohexane to yield 90 mg 48 of 105 as an off white solid. LCMS ESI R min 2.76 M H 416 Method A H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.94 d J 8.8 Hz 1H 7.40 br s 1H 7.17 s 1H 7.03 br s 1H 6.41 dd J 8.8 2.3 Hz 1H 6.22 d J 7.1 Hz 1H 6.09 d J 2.2 Hz 1H 4.99 ddd J 48.3 9.8 2.5 Hz 1H 4.81 4.56 m 3H 4.40 dd J 8.6 3.9 Hz 1H 4.37 4.29 m 4H 3.15 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 1.16 1.05 m 1H 0.54 0.43 m 3H 0.33 0.25 m 1H .

A mixture of S 3 9 bromo 5 6 dihydrobenzo f imidazo 1 2 d 1 4 oxazepin 2 yl 4 fluoromethyl oxazolidin 2 one and S 3 9 iodo 5 6 dihydrobenzo f imidazo 1 2 d 1 4 oxazepin 2 yl 4 fluoromethyl oxazolidin 2 one Example 105 step 5 195 mg approximate 2 1 mixture 9 Br 9 I approximate 0.49 mmol L alanine 87 mg 0.98 mmol cuprous iodide 17 mg 0.09 mmol and potassium phosphate tribasic 208 mg 0.98 mmol in dimethyl sulfoxide 3.0 mL were degassed with argon under sonication. The reaction mixture was heated at 100 C. for 4 hours then cooled to room temperature. The resultant mixture was diluted with dimethyl sulfoxide 3.0 mL and ammonium chloride 157 mg 2.94 mmol and triethylamine 683 L 4.8 mmol were added. To this mixture was then added 1 bis dimethylamino methylene 1H 1 2 3 triazolo 4 5 b pyridinium 3 oxide hexafluorophosphate 1.10 g 2.94 mmol portion wise and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes. The resultant mixture was diluted with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution and extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The resultant residue was purified via flash chromatography on silica gel solvent gradient 0 5 methanol in dichloromethane and then further purified by chiral supercritical fluid chromatography to yield 36 mg 19 of 106 as an off white solid. LCMS ESI R min 2.43 M H 390 Method A H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.96 d J 8.8 Hz 1H 7.37 br s 1H 7.17 s 1H 7.00 br s 1H 6.39 dd J 8.6 1.6 Hz 1H 6.15 d J 7.0 Hz 1H 6.09 d J 1.6 Hz 1H 5.08 4.55 m 5H 4.42 4.28 m 4H 3.76 quintet J 7.2 Hz 1H 1.30 d J 7.2 Hz 3H .

A mixture S 3 9 bromo 5 6 dihydrobenzo f imidazo 1 2 d 1 4 oxazepin 2 yl 4 difluoromethyl oxazolidin 2 one Example 101 step 12 240 mg 0.60 mmol S 2 aminobutyric acid 124 mg 1.19 mmol cuprous iodide 22.8 mg 0.119 mmol potassium phosphate tribasic 255 mg 1.19 mmol and dimethyl sulfoxide 6.0 mL was stirred under argon at 100 C. for 6 hours. The resultant mixture was allowed to cool to room temperature and then ammonium chloride 188 mg 3.52 mmol and triethylamine 1.2 mL 8.80 mmol were added. To the stirred suspension was added 1 bis dimethylamino methylene 1H 1 2 3 triazolo 4 5 b pyridinium 3 oxide hexafluorophosphate 2.01 g 5.28 mmol portion wise and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The resultant mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate washed with saturated ammonium chloride dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The crude product was purified via flash chromatography on silica gel solvent gradient 0 10 methanol in ethyl acetate further purified via reverse phase HPLC then chiral supercritical fluid chromatography to yield 73.6 mg 30 of 107 as a white solid. LCMS ESI R min 3.13 M H 422 Method A H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.99 d J 8.8 Hz 1H 7.40 s 1H 7.17 s 1H 7.03 s 1H 6.71 t J 56.0 Hz 1H 6.44 dd J 8.8 2.2 Hz 1H 6.13 d J 2.2 Hz 1H 6.09 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 5.02 4.89 m 1H 4.62 4.53 m 2H 4.41 4.27 m 4H 3.65 3.60 m 1H 1.72 1.59 m 2H 0.94 t J 7.3 Hz 3H .

PI3K Binding assays are intended for determining the biochemical potency of small molecule PI3K inhibitors. The PI3K lipid kinase reaction is performed in the presence of PIP2 3PS lipid substrate Promega V1792 and ATP. Following the termination if the kinase reaction turnover of ATP to ADP by the phosphorylation of the lipid substrate is detected using the Promega ADP Glo Promega V1792 assay. Reactions are carried out using the following conditions for each PI3K isoform as in Table 5.

After 120 minutes of reaction time the kinase reaction is terminated. Any ATP remaining after the reaction is depleted leaving only ADP. Then the Kinase Detection Reagent is added to convert ADP to ATP which is used in a coupled luciferin luciferase reaction. The luminescent output is measured and is correlated with kinase activity.

All reactions are carried out at room temperature. For each PI3K isoform a 3 l mixture 1 1 of enzyme lipid substrate solution is added to a 384 well white assay plate Perkin Elmer 6007299 containing 50 nl of test compound or DMSO only for untreated controls. The reaction is started by the addition of 2 l ATP MgCl. The kinase reaction buffer contains 50 mM HEPES 50 mM NaCl 3 mM MgCl 0.01 BSA 1 DMSO and enzyme and substrate concentrations as indicated in the above table. The reaction is stopped by the addition of 10 L ADP Glo reagent. Plates are read in a Perkin Elmer Envision system using luminescence mode. 10 point dose response curves are generated for each test compound. Ki values for each compound are determined using the Morrison Equation.

Binding Assays Initial polarization experiments were performed on an Analyst HT 96 384 Molecular Devices Corp Sunnyvale Calif. . Samples for fluorescence polarization affinity measurements were prepared by addition of 1 3 serial dilutions of p110alpha PI3K Upstate Cell Signaling Solutions Charlottesville Va. starting at a final concentration of 20 ug mL in polarization buffer 10 mM Tris pH 7.5 50 mM NaCl 4 mM MgCl 0.05 Chaps and 1 mM DTT to 10 mM PIP Echelon Inc. Salt Lake City Utah final concentration. After an incubation time of 30 minutes at room temperature the reactions were stopped by the addition of GRP 1 and PIP3 TAMRA probe Echelon Inc. Salt Lake City Utah 100 nM and 5 nM final concentrations respectively. Read with standard cut off filters for the rhodamine fluorophore ex 530 nm em 590 nm in 384 well black low volume Proxiplates PerkinElmer Wellesley Mass. Fluorescence polarization values were plotted as a function of the protein concentration. ECvalues were obtained by fitting the data to a four parameter equation using KaleidaGraph software Synergy software Reading Pa. . This experiment also establishes the appropriate protein concentration to use in subsequent competition experiments with inhibitors.

Inhibitor ICvalues were determined by addition of the 0.04 mg mL p110alpha PI3K final concentration combined with PIP 10 mM final concentration to wells containing 1 3 serial dilutions of the antagonists in a final concentration of 25 mM ATP Cell Signaling Technology Inc. Danvers Mass. in the polarization buffer. After an incubation time of 30 minutes at room temperature the reactions were stopped by the addition of GRP 1 and PIP3 TAMRA probe Echelon Inc. Salt Lake City Utah 100 nM and 5 nM final concentrations respectively. Read with standard cut off filters for the rhodamine fluorophore ex 530 nm em 590 nm in 384 well black low volume Proxiplates PerkinElmer Wellesley Mass. Fluorescence polarization values were plotted as a function of the antagonist concentration and the ICvalues were obtained by fitting the data to a 4 parameter equation in Assay Explorer software MDL San Ramon Calif. .

Alternatively inhibition of PI3K was determined in a radiometric assay using purified recombinant enzyme and ATP at a concentration of 1 M micromolar . The compound was serially diluted in 100 DMSO. The kinase reaction was incubated for 1 h at room temperature and the reaction was terminated by the addition of PBS. ICvalues were subsequently determined using sigmoidal dose response curve fit variable slope .

The ability of a compound of the invention to act preferentially against cells containing mutant PI3K alpha was determined by measuring inhibition of the PI3K pathway in SW48 isogenic cell lines PI3K wild type parental helical domain mutant E545K and kinase domain mutant H1047R. The following assays are intended for determining the cellular potency and mutant selectivity of small molecule PI3K inhibitors. The assay utilizes isogenic cell lines that express PI3K WT PI3K mutant E545K Horizon Discovery 103 001 or PI3K mutant H1047R Horizon Discovery 103 005 . The potency of pPRAS40 inhibition by PI3K in each cell line is measured after 24 hours of compound treatment. Mutant selectivity of PI3K inhibitors is determined by ECpotency ratios in the WT vs. E545K cell lines and WT vs. H1047R cell lines.

Cell Culture Cell lines are maintained in a cell culture incubator at 37 C. and 5 COin cell culture medium containing RPMI1640 prepared at Genentech 10 FBS Gibco 16140 071 2 mM L glutamine prepared at Genentech and 10 mM HEPES pH 7.2 prepared at Genentech . Cells are split every 72 hours at a ratio of 1 8 using 0.25 Trypsin EDTA Gibco 25200 .

Assay Procedure Cells are harvested and plated in 384 well tissue culture treated assay plates Greiner cat 781091 and incubated overnight at 37 C. at 5 CO. The three cell lines WT E545K and H1047R are plated and assayed in parallel. The following day test compounds are serially diluted in dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO and added to cells final DMSO concentration 0.5 . Cells are then incubated for 24 hours at 37 C. and 5 CO. After 24 hours cells are lysed and pPRAS40 levels are measured using the Meso Scale custom pPRAS40 384w Assay Kit Meso Scale Discovery cat L21CA 1 . Cell lysates are added to assay plates pre coated with antibodies against phosphorylated PRAS40. Phosphorylated PRAS40 in samples are allowed to bind to the capture antibodies overnight at 4 C. The detection antibody anti total PRAS40 labeled with an electrochemiluminescent SULFO TAG is added to the bound lysate and incubated for 1 hour at room temperature. The MSD Read Buffer is added such that when a voltage is applied to the plate electrodes the labels bound to the electrode surface emit light. The MSD Sector Instrument measures the intensity of the light and quantitatively measures the amount of phosphor PRAS40 in the sample. Percent inhibition of PRAS40 phosphorylation by varying concentrations of test compounds is calculated relative to untreated controls. ECvalues are calculated using the 4 parameter logistic nonlinear regression dose response model.

Statistical Analysis ECvalues represent the geometric mean of a minimum of 4 independent experiments. All statistics were performed using KaleidaGraph Software version 4.1.3 . A Student t Test was performed using unpaired data with equal variance to compare activity against mutant cells and wild type cells. P

Cells were seeded 1 500 per well in 384 well plates for 16 h. On day 2 nine serial 1 3 compound dilutions were made in DMSO in a 96 well plate. The compounds were then further diluted into growth media using a Rapidplate robot Zymark Corp. . The diluted compounds were then added to quadruplicate wells in the 384 well cell plates and incubated at 37 C. and 5 CO. After 4 d relative numbers of viable cells were measured by luminescence using Cell Titer Glo Promega according to the manufacturer s instructions and read on a Wallac Multilabel Reader Perkin Elmer . EC50 values were calculated using Prism 6.0 software GraphPad .

Female severe combined immunodeficiency mice C.B 17 SCID.bg Charles River Labs San Diego NOD.SCID Charles River Labs Hollister or NCR.nude mice Taconic were 8 to 9 weeks old and had a BW range of 18 26 grams on Day 0 of the study. The animals received ad libitum water and Laboratory Autoclavable Rodent Diet 5010 LabDiet St. Louis Mo. . The mice were housed in microisolators on a 12 hour light cycle. Genentech specifically complies with the recommendations of the Guide for Care and Use of Laboratory Animals with respect to restraint husbandry surgical procedures feed and fluid regulation and veterinary care. The animal care and use program at Genentech is accredited by the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International AAALAC which ensures compliance with accepted standards for the care and use of laboratory animals. The mice were housed at Genentech in standard rodent micro isolator cages and were acclimated to study conditions for at least 3 days before tumor cell implantation. Only animals that appeared to be healthy and that were free of obvious abnormalities were used for the study

Xenografts were initiated with either cancer cells HCC1954x1 or KPL4 or passage tumors HCl 003 . Cells were cultured in RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with 10 fetal bovine serum 2 mM glutamine 100 units m penicillin 100 g mL micrograms per ml streptomycin sulfate and 25 g mL gentamicin harvested in the log phase growth and resuspended in 50 phenol red free Matrigel Becton Dickinson Bioscience San Jose Calif. and Hank s Balanced Salt Solution at a concentration of 3 106 or 5 106 cells mL depending on the doubling time of the cell line. For the HCl 003 patient derived model 30 mg beeswax pellets containing approximately 1 mg of 17 beta estradiol were implanted subcutaneously 3 days prior to implantation of tumor fragments. Tumor cells or fragments were implanted into the mammary fat pad and tumor growth was monitored as the average size approached the target range of 100 to 250 mm3. Once the majority of tumors reached the target range Mice were distributed into groups of 7 10 mice based on tumor volume.

PI3K compounds were supplied as a free base in dry powder and stored at room temperature protected from light. The vehicle for taselisib GDC 0032 and BYL719 was 0.5 methylcellulose 0.2 Tween 80 MCT in deionized water. The vehicle control for compound 101 was 0.5 methylcellulose 0.2 Tween 80 MCT nanosuspension. MCT nanosuspension is prepared by initially preparing a MCT suspension. Once prepared 1 mm glass beads and a rare earth magnetic stir bar are used to mill the MCT suspension for about 24 hours into a fine nanosuspension. Particle size analyzer was used to check final particle size. Drug doses were prepared weekly and stored at 4 C.

Mice were given Vehicle or stated mg kg dosage of PI3K compounds expressed as free base equivalent PO by gavage daily for 21 28 days in a volume of 100 L microliters 5 mL kg .

Tumor volume was measured in 2 dimensions length and width using Ultra Cal 0 calipers Model 54 10 111 Fred V. Fowler Company as follows tumor volume mm length width 0.5 and analyzed using Excel version 11.2 Microsoft Corporation . A linear mixed effect LME modeling approach was used to analyze the repeated measurement of tumor volumes from the same animals over time Pinheiro J et al. nlme linear and nonlinear mixed effects models 2009 R package version 325. This approach addresses both repeated measurements and modest dropouts due to any non treatment related death of animals before study end. Cubic regression splines were used to fit a nonlinear profile to the time courses of log 2 tumor volume at each dose level. These nonlinear profiles were then related to dose within the mixed model. Tumor growth inhibition as a percentage of vehicle control TGI was calculated as the percentage of the area under the fitted curve AUC for the respective dose group per day in relation to the vehicle using the following formula TGI 100 1 AUC AUC . Using this formula a TGI value of 100 indicates tumor stasis a TGI value of more than 1 but less than 100 indicates tumor regression. Partial response PR for an animal was defined as a tumor regression of more than 50 but less than 

Animals were weighed daily for the first five days of the study and twice weekly thereafter. Animal body weights were measured using an Adventurer Pro AV812 scale Ohaus Corporation . Percent weight change was calculated as follows body weight change weight weight weight 100. The mice were observed frequently for overt signs of any adverse treatment related side effects and clinical signs of toxicity were recorded when observed. Acceptable toxicity is defined as a group mean body weight BW loss of less than 20 during the study and not more than one treatment related TR death among ten treated animals. Any dosing regimen that results in greater toxicity is considered above the maximum tolerated dose MTD . A death is classified as TR if attributable to treatment side effects as evidenced by clinical signs and or necropsy or may also be classified as TR if due to unknown causes during the dosing period or within 10 days of the last dose A death is classified as NTR if there is no evidence that death was related to treatment side effects.

Cell lines were grown under standard tissue culture conditions in RPMI media with 10 fetal bovine serum 100 U mL penicillin and 100 g mL streptomycin. HCC 1954 and HDQ P1 are breast cancer cell lines American Type Culture Collection Manassas Va. HCC 1954 and HDQ P1 cells were placed in each well of a 6 well tissue culture plate at 800 00 cells well and incubated at 37 C. overnight. Cells were incubated with the indicated concentrations of each compound for 24 hours. Following incubation cells were washed once with cold phosphate buffered saline PBS and lysed in Biosource Cell Extraction Buffer Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. supplemented with protease inhibitors F. Hoffman LaRoche Mannheim Germany 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride and Phosphatase Inhibitor Cocktails 1 and 2 Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. . Protein concentrations were determined using the Pierce BCA Protein Assay Kit Thermo Fisher Scientific Rockford Ill. .

Protein concentration was determined using the Pierce BCA Protein Assay Kit Rockford Ill. . For immunoblots equal protein amounts were separated by electrophoresis through NuPage Bis Tris 4 12 gradient gels Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. proteins were transferred onto Nitrocellulose membranes using the IBlot system and protocol from InVitrogen. Antibodies to p110alpha and phospho Akt Ser473 were obtained from Cell Signaling Danvers Mass. . Antibodies to actin and GAPDH were from Sigma.

Human whole blood was dispensed into 96 deep well plates at 100 l per well. Compounds were diluted in DMSO to generate the desired stock concentrations and then further diluted in PBS to the desired working concentration and added in a volume of 5.5 L per well. Samples were then incubated for 1 hour at 37 C. under 5 CObefore the addition of 5 g 10 l per well of Goat anti IgM. F ab 2 Southern Biotech AL and incubated for 18 hours at 37 C. under 5 CO. All treatments were tested in duplicate.

After incubation the level of CD69 expression on CD19 CD27 cells was determined by staining the whole blood samples with a cocktail of CD27 10 l well clone L128 BD Biosciences N.J. CD19 7.5 l well clone SJ25C1 BD Biosciences N.J. and CD69 10 l clone FN50 BD Biosciences N.J. . In addition human whole blood from each donor was stained with isotype matched fluorescent control antibodies. After the addition of the appropriate antibody cocktail the whole blood samples were stained for 30 minutes in the dark and then lysed using BD Pharm Lysis BD Bioscience N.J. . The resulting samples were then washed with FACS Buffer Phosphate Buffered Saline Ca Mg free 1 mM EDTA 25 mM HEPES pH 7.0 1 Fetal Bovine Serum Heat Inactivated and fixed in FACS Buffer supplemented with 0.1 Formaldehyde Polysciences Inc PA and 0.1 Pluronic F 68 Sigma Mo. . Data were acquired using a BD LSR II BD Biosciences with BD FACSDiva software.

Cells were assessed by flow cytometry for levels of CD19 CD27 and CD69 using BD FACSDiva Software and the CD69 MH Mean of the CD19 CD27 lymphocyte population was determined. The concentration of compound resulting in 50 inhibition of CD69 MFI Mean IC was determined using Genedata software Genedata Screener Mass. .

Cells are plated in 384 well tissue culture treated assay plates and incubated overnight. The following day cells are treated with compounds and incubated for 24 hours. After 24 hours cells are lysed and pPRAS40 levels are measured using the Meso Scale assay platform. These cell lines are quite useful for characterizing the selectivity of PI3K inhibitors for mutant PI3K . The HCC1954 cell line expresses mutant PI3K E545K vs WT in HDQP1.

The MSD platform provides a method of measuring the phosphorylated levels of pPRAS40 in a single sample. Cell lysates are added to assay plates pre coated with antibodies against total PRAS40. Following cell lysis PRAS40 in samples is allowed to bind to the capture antibodies. The detection antibody anti phospho PRAS40 labeled with an electrochemiluminescent compound MSD SULFO TAG is added to the bound lysate. The MSD Read Buffer is added such that when a voltage is applied to the plate electrodes the labels bound to the electrode surface emit light. The MSD Sector Instrument measures the intensity of the light and quantitatively measures the amount of phosphor EGFR in the sample Meso Scale Assay Principle .

Block the MSD assay plate with 50 ul 3 Blocker A 1 MSD Wash Buffer 1 2 hr at room temp. This solution can be stored at 4 C. for up to one month. Blocking buffer A contains 1 MSD wash buffer. 20 mL 1 Tris Wash buffer and 600 mg Blocker A.

N terminally truncated p110 alpha was produced according to Chen et al and Nacht et al. Chen P. Y. L. Deng S. Bergqvist M. D. Falk W. Liu S. Timofeevski and A. Brooun Engineering of an isolated p110alpha subunit of PI3Kalpha permits crystallization and provides a platform for structure based drug design 2014 Protein Sci 23 10 1332 1340 Nacht M. et al 2013 Discovery of a potent and isoform selective targeted covalent inhibitor of the lipid kinase PI3Kalpha J. Med. Chem. 56 3 712 721 .

Standard protocols were applied to production of crystals in the presence of project compounds. Harvested crystals were preserved for diffraction data collection by immersion in liquid nitrogen and mounted on a synchrotron beamline producing monochromatic X rays. Diffraction data were collected reduced and merged using standard protocols. The crystallographic unit cells and space group were isomorphous with those reported previously Nacht 2013 Chen 2014 . Placement of project compounds into electron density maps and crystallographic refinement to resolution limits of between 2.36 and 2.56 were performed using standard protocols.

Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail by way of illustration and example for purposes of clarity of understanding the descriptions and examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the invention. The disclosures of all patent and scientific literature cited herein are expressly incorporated in their entirety by reference.

