---

title: Software application and zones
abstract: Embodiments described herein relate to a software application that is configured to operate as an add-on software component to audio-playback software on a playback device of a media playback system. One embodiment may involve transmitting, to a computing device, data indicating that a first add-on component installed on a playback device is active; receiving, from the computing device, a command to activate a second add-on component installed on a playback device; in response to receiving the command, activating the second add-on component on the playback device; and causing playback of audio using at least the second add-on component.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09513868&OS=09513868&RS=09513868
owner: Sonos, Inc.
number: 09513868
owner_city: Santa Barbara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160128
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 to and is a continuation of U.S. non provisional patent application Ser. No. 14 155 490 filed on Jan. 15 2014 entitled Software Application and Zones which is incorporated herein by reference.

The disclosure is related to consumer goods and more particularly to methods systems products features services and other items directed to media playback or some aspect thereof.

Digital music has become readily available due in part to the development of consumer level technology that has allowed people to listen to digital music on a personal audio device. The consumer s increasing preference for digital audio has also resulted in the integration of personal audio devices into PDAs cellular phones and other mobile devices. The portability of these mobile devices has enabled people to take the music listening experience with them and outside of the home. People have become able to consume digital music like digital music files or even Internet radio in the home through the use of their computer or similar devices. Now there are many different ways to consume digital music in addition to other digital content including digital video and photos stimulated in many ways by high speed Internet access at home mobile broadband Internet access and the consumer s hunger for digital media.

Until recently options for accessing and listening to digital audio in an out loud setting were severely limited. In 2005 Sonos offered for sale its first digital audio system that enabled people to among many other things access virtually unlimited sources of audio via one or more networked connected playback devices dynamically group or ungroup playback devices upon command wirelessly send the audio over a local network amongst playback devices and play the digital audio out loud across multiple playback devices in synchrony. The Sonos system can be controlled by software applications running on network capable mobile devices and computers.

Given the insatiable appetite of consumers towards digital media there continues to be a need to develop consumer technology that revolutionizes the way people access and consume digital media.

In addition the drawings are for the purpose of illustrating example embodiments but it is understood that the inventions are not limited to the arrangements and instrumentality shown in the drawings.

Embodiments described herein relate to a media playback system in which one or more software applications may be installed thereon that operate as add on software component s to audio playback software. An application identifier may be displayed on a controller of the media playback system that indicates the one or more software applications are assigned to the playback device which may be part of a zone of the media playback system. The one or more software applications may be configured to add or to alter functionality of the audio playback software where the audio playback software refers to software configured to cause the playback device to reproduce audio among other functions. Audio playback software is typically installed on new playback device s by the manufacturer.

In some embodiments the one or more add on software applications can be installed onto a playback device or group of playback devices. As noted above each of the one or more software applications may operate as a respective add on component to the audio playback software. Though the examples of add on software applications may be virtually endless and oftentimes limited by the imagination of the developer by way of illustration an example software application may operate as one or more third party equalizer pre sets that adjust frequency components of audio played by the playback device.

In an embodiment a user interface of a controller of a media playback system displays a zone identifier that identifies a zone of the media playback system. The zone may include one or more playback devices where each playback device comes from the manufacturer with audio playback software installed. The user interface may also display an application identifier in association with the zone identifier to indicate that a software application installed on one or more of the playback devices associated with the zone is configured to operate as an add on software component to the audio playback software. A particular software application that is configured to operate as an add on component to the audio playback software may be referred to as being assigned to the zone or active in the zone.

In an embodiment the arrangement of the zone identifier and application identifier on a user interface may indicate that 1 the software application is installed on one or more playback devices that are associated with a particular zone or zone group and or 2 the software application is presently configured to operate as an add on software component to the audio playback software on one or more of the playback devices associated with the zone. When the software application is not presently operating as an add on software component the application identifier may change its appearance such as by dimming or graying out or in other embodiments the application identifier is not displayed on the user interface.

In an embodiment a playback device a is configured to play audio in a zone of a media playback system and b has audio playback software installed thereon. In an embodiment the playback device receives the software application from a remote server via the interface and the playback device installs the software application. In an embodiment the playback device sends status information to a controller of the media playback system indicating that the software application is installed on the playback device.

In an embodiment a playback device may receive a command from the controller of the media playback system to assign the software application to the zone of the media playback system. Once assigned the software application may be configured to operate as an add on software component to the audio playback software.

As indicated above the present application relates to a software application that is configured to operate as an add on software component to audio playback software on a playback device of a media playback system. In one aspect a method is provided. The method involves displaying on a user interface of a controller of a media playback system a zone identifier that identifies a zone of the media playback system where the zone includes one or more playback device that have audio playback software installed thereon. The method also involves displaying on the user interface of the controller an application identifier in association with the zone identifier where the application identifier indicates that a software application installed on one or more of the playback devices that are associated with the zone is configured to operate as an add on software component to the audio playback software.

In another aspect a device is provided. The device includes a user interface a network interface a processor a data storage and a program logic stored in the data storage and executable by the processor to display on the user interface of the controller of a media playback system a zone identifier that identifies a zone of the media playback system where the zone includes a playback device that has audio playback software installed thereon and display on the user interface of the controller an application identifier in association with the zone identifier where the application identifier indicates that a software application installed on the playback device is configured to operate as an add on software component to the audio playback software.

In another aspect a non transitory computer readable memory is provided. The non transitory computer readable memory has stored thereon instructions executable by a controller to cause the controller to perform functions. The functions include displaying on a user interface of a controller of a media playback system a zone identifier that identifies a zone of the media playback system where the zone includes one or more playback devices that have audio playback software installed thereon. The functions further include displaying on the user interface of the controller an application identifier in association with the zone identifier where the application identifier indicates that a software application installed on one or more of the playback devices that are associated with the zone is configured to operate as an add on software component to the audio playback software.

In another aspect a second method is provided. The method involves providing an interface to receive a software application on a playback device where the playback device a is configured to play audio in a zone of a media playback system and b has audio playback software installed thereon sending status information to a controller of the media playback system where the status information indicates that the software application is installed on the playback device and receiving a command from the controller of the media playback system to assign the software application to the zone of the media playback system where the software application is configured to operate as an add on software component to the audio playback software. 

In another aspect a playback device is provided. The playback device includes a network interface a processor a data storage and a program logic stored in the data storage and executable by the processor to receive a software application via a network interface where the playback device a is configured to play audio in a zone of a media playback system and b has audio playback software installed thereon send status information to a controller of the media playback system where the status information indicates that the software application is installed on the playback device and receive a command from the controller of the media playback system to assign the software application to the zone of the media playback system where the software application is configured to operate as an add on software component to the audio playback software.

In another aspect a second non transitory computer readable medium is provided. The non transitory computer readable memory has stored thereon instructions executable by a controller to cause the controller to perform functions. The functions include receiving a command from a controller of a media playback system to assign a software application to a zone of the media playback system where the playback device a is configured to play audio in the zone of the media playback system and b has audio playback software installed thereon providing an interface to receive the software application on the playback device where the software application is configured to operate as an add on software component to the audio playback software and sending status information to a controller of the media playback system where the status information indicates that the software application is installed on the playback device.

Other embodiments as those discussed in the following and others as can be appreciated by one having ordinary skill in the art are also possible.

Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals can refer to like parts throughout the figures shows an example media system configuration in which one or more embodiments disclosed herein can be practiced or implemented.

By way of illustration the media system configuration is associated with a home having multiple zones although it should be understood that the home could be configured with only one zone. Additionally one or more zones can be added to the configuration over time. Each zone may be assigned by a user to a different room or space such as for example an office bathroom bedroom kitchen dining room family room home theater room utility or laundry room and patio. A single zone might also include multiple rooms or spaces if so configured. With respect to one or more of playback devices are shown in each respective zone. Playback devices also referred to herein as playback devices multimedia units speakers players and so on provide audio video and or audiovisual output. A controller e.g. shown in the kitchen for purposes of this illustration provides control to the media system configuration . Controller may be fixed to a zone or alternatively mobile such that it can be moved about the zones. The media system configuration may also include more than one controller and additional controllers may be added to the system over time.

The media system configuration illustrates an example whole house media system though it is understood that the technology described herein is not limited to among other things its particular place of application or to an expansive system like a whole house media system of .

Referring back to in some embodiments one some or all of the playback devices to can retrieve audio directly from a source. For example a particular playback device in a zone or zone group may be assigned to a playback queue or queue . The playback queue contains information corresponding to zero or more audio items for playback by the associated zone or zone group. The playback queue may be stored in memory on a playback device or some other designated device. Each item contained in the playback queue may comprise a uniform resource identifier URI or some other identifier that can be used by the playback device s to seek out and or retrieve the audio items from the identified audio source s . Depending on the item the audio source might be found on the Internet e.g. the cloud locally from another device over the data network described further below from the controller stored on the playback device itself or from an audio source communicating directly to the playback device. In some embodiments the playback device can reproduce the audio itself e.g. play the audio send the audio to another playback device for reproduction or both where the audio is reproduced by the playback device as well as one or more additional playback devices possibly in synchrony . In some embodiments the playback device may play a first audio content or alternatively may not play the content at all while sending a second different audio content to another playback device s for reproduction. To the user each item in a playback queue is represented on an interface of a controller by an element such as a track name album name radio station name playlist or other some other representation. A user can populate the playback queue with audio items of interest. The user may also modify and clear the playback queue if so desired.

By way of illustration SONOS Inc. of Santa Barbara Calif. presently offers for sale playback devices referred to as a PLAY 5 PLAY 3 PLAYBAR CONNECT AMP CONNECT and SUB. Any other past present and or future playback devices can additionally or alternatively be used to implement the playback devices of example embodiments disclosed herein. Additionally it is understood that a playback device is not limited to the particular examples illustrated in or to the SONOS product offerings. For example a playback device may include a wired or wireless headphone. In yet another example a playback device might include a sound bar for television. In yet another example a playback device may include or interact with a docking station for an Apple iPod or similar device.

In some embodiments if more than one controller is used in system of each controller may be coordinated to display common content and may all be dynamically updated to indicate changes made to the system from a single controller. Coordination can occur for instance by a controller periodically requesting a state variable directly or indirectly from one or more of the playback devices the state variable may provide information about system such as current zone group configuration what is playing in one or more zones volume levels and other items of interest. The state variable may be passed around on data network between playback devices and controllers if so desired as needed or as often as programmed.

In addition an application running on any network enabled portable device such as an iPhone iPad Android powered phone or tablet or any other smart phone or network enabled device can be used as controller . An application running on a laptop or desktop personal computer PC or Mac can also be used as controller . Such controllers may connect to system through an interface with data network a playback device a wireless router or using some other configured connection path. Example controllers offered by Sonos Inc. of Santa Barbara Calif. include a Controller SONOS CONTROL SONOS Controller for iPhone SONOS Controller for iPad SONOS Controller for Android SONOS Controller for Mac or PC. 

Playback devices of are coupled directly or indirectly to a data network such as data network . Controller may also be coupled directly or indirectly to data network or individual playback devices. Data network is represented by an octagon in the figure to stand out from other representative components. While data network is shown in a single location it is understood that such a network is distributed in and around system . Particularly data network can be a wired network a wireless network or a combination of both wired and wireless networks. In some embodiments one or more of the playback devices are wirelessly coupled to data network based on a proprietary mesh network. In some embodiments one or more of the playback devices are coupled to data network using a centralized access point such as a wired or wireless router. In some embodiments one or more of the playback devices are coupled via a wire to data network using Ethernet or similar technology. In addition to the one or more playback devices connecting to data network data network can further allow access to a wide area network such as the Internet.

In some embodiments connecting any of the playback devices or some other connecting device to a broadband router can create data network . Other playback devices can then be added wired or wirelessly to the data network . For example a playback device e.g. any of playback devices can be added to the system configuration by simply pressing a button on the playback device itself or perform some other action which enables a connection to be made to data network . The broadband router can be connected to an Internet Service Provider ISP for example. The broadband router can be used to form another data network within the system configuration which can be used in other applications e.g. web surfing . Data network can also be used in other applications if so programmed. An example second network may implement SONOSNET protocol developed by SONOS Inc. of Santa Barbara. SONOSNET represents a secure AES encrypted peer to peer wireless mesh network. Alternatively in certain embodiments the data network is the same network such as a traditional wired or wireless network used for other applications in the household.

A particular zone can contain one or more playback devices. For example the family room of contains two playback devices and while the kitchen is shown with one playback device . In another example the home theater room contains additional playback devices to play audio from a 5.1 channel or greater audio source e.g. a movie encoded with 5.1 or greater audio channels . In some embodiments one can position a playback device in a room or space and assign the playback device to a new or existing zone via controller . As such zones may be created combined with another zone removed and given a specific name e.g. Kitchen if so desired and programmed to do so with controller . Moreover in some embodiments zone configurations may be dynamically changed even after being configured using controller or some other mechanism.

In some embodiments if a zone contains two or more playback devices such as the two playback devices and in the family room then the two playback devices and can be configured to play the same audio source in synchrony or the two playback devices and can be paired to play two separate sounds in left and right channels for example. In other words the stereo effects of a sound can be reproduced or enhanced through the two playback devices and one for the left sound and the other for the right sound. In certain embodiments paired playback devices also referred to as bonded playback devices can play audio in synchrony with other playback devices in the same or different zones.

In some embodiments two or more playback devices can be sonically consolidated to form a single consolidated playback device. A consolidated playback device though made up of multiple separate devices can be configured to process and reproduce sound differently than an unconsolidated playback device or playback devices that are paired because a consolidated playback device will have additional speaker drivers from which sound can be passed. The consolidated playback device can further be paired with a single playback device or yet another consolidated playback device. Each playback device of a consolidated playback device can be set in a consolidated mode for example.

According to some embodiments one can continue to do any of group consolidate and pair playback devices for example until a desired configuration is complete. The actions of grouping consolidation and pairing are preferably performed through a control interface such as using controller and not by physically connecting and re connecting speaker wire for example to individual discrete speakers to create different configurations. As such certain embodiments described herein provide a more flexible and dynamic platform through which sound reproduction can be offered to the end user.

In some embodiments each zone can play from the same audio source as another zone or each zone can play from a different audio source. For example someone can be grilling on the patio and listening to jazz music via playback device while someone is preparing food in the kitchen and listening to classical music via playback device . Further someone can be in the office listening to the same jazz music via playback device that is playing on the patio via playback device . In some embodiments the jazz music played via playback devices and is played in synchrony. Synchronizing playback amongst zones allows for an individual to pass through zones while seamlessly or substantially seamlessly listening to the audio. Further zones can be put into a party mode such that all associated zones will play audio in synchrony.

Sources of audio content to be played by playback devices are numerous. In some embodiments audio on a playback device itself may be accessed and played. In some embodiments audio on a controller may be accessed via the data network and played. In some embodiments music from a personal library stored on a computer or networked attached storage NAS may be accessed via the data network and played. In some embodiments Internet radio stations shows and podcasts may be accessed via the data network and played. Music or cloud services that let a user stream and or download music and audio content may be accessed via the data network and played. Further music may be obtained from traditional sources such as a turntable or CD player via a line in connection to a playback device for example. Audio content may also be accessed using a different protocol such as Airplay which is a wireless technology by Apple Inc. for example. Audio content received from one or more sources can be shared amongst the playback devices to via data network and or controller . The above disclosed sources of audio content are referred to herein as network based audio information sources. However network based audio information sources are not limited thereto.

In some embodiments the example home theater playback devices are coupled to an audio information source such as a television . In some examples the television is used as a source of audio for the home theater playback devices while in other examples audio information from the television may be shared with any of the playback devices in the audio system .

Referring now to there is shown an example block diagram of a playback device in accordance with an embodiment. Playback device includes a network interface a processor a memory an audio processing component one or more modules an audio amplifier and a speaker unit coupled to the audio amplifier . shows an example illustration of such a playback device. Other types of playback devices may not include the speaker unit e.g. such as shown in or the audio amplifier e.g. such as shown in . Further it is contemplated that the playback device can be integrated into another component. For example the playback device could be constructed as part of a television lighting or some other device for indoor or outdoor use.

In some embodiments network interface facilitates a data flow between playback device and other devices on a data network . In some embodiments in addition to getting audio from another playback device or device on data network playback device may access audio directly from the audio source such as over a wide area network or on the local network. In some embodiments the network interface can further handle the address part of each packet so that it gets to the right destination or intercepts packets destined for the playback device . Accordingly in certain embodiments each of the packets includes an Internet Protocol IP based source address as well as an IP based destination address.

In some embodiments network interface can include one or both of a wireless interface and a wired interface . The wireless interface also referred to as a radio frequency RF interface provides network interface functions for the playback device to wirelessly communicate with other devices e.g. other playback device s speaker s receiver s component s associated with the data network and so on in accordance with a communication protocol e.g. any wireless standard including IEEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g 802.11n 802.11ac 802.15 4G mobile communication standard and so on . Wireless interface may include one or more radios. To receive wireless signals and to provide the wireless signals to the wireless interface and to transmit wireless signals the playback device includes one or more antennas . The wired interface provides network interface functions for the playback device to communicate over a wire with other devices in accordance with a communication protocol e.g. IEEE 802.3 . In some embodiments a playback device includes multiple wireless interfaces. In some embodiments a playback device includes multiple wired interfaces. In some embodiments a playback device includes both of the interfaces and . In some embodiments a playback device includes only the wireless interface or the wired interface .

In some embodiments the processor is a clock driven electronic device that is configured to process input data according to instructions stored in memory . The memory is data storage that can be loaded with one or more software module s which can be executed by the processor to achieve certain tasks. In the illustrated embodiment the memory is a tangible machine readable medium storing instructions that can be executed by the processor . In some embodiments a task might be for the playback device to retrieve audio data from another playback device or a device on a network e.g. using a uniform resource locator URL or some other identifier . In some embodiments a task may be for the playback device to send audio data to another playback device or device on a network. In some embodiments a task may be for the playback device to synchronize playback of audio with one or more additional playback devices. In some embodiments a task may be to pair the playback device with one or more playback devices to create a multi channel audio environment. Additional or alternative tasks can be achieved via the one or more software module s and the processor .

The audio processing component can include one or more digital to analog converters DAC an audio preprocessing component an audio enhancement component or a digital signal processor and so on. In some embodiments the audio processing component may be part of processor . In some embodiments the audio that is retrieved via the network interface is processed and or intentionally altered by the audio processing component . Further the audio processing component can produce analog audio signals. The processed analog audio signals are then provided to the audio amplifier for playback through speakers . In addition the audio processing component can include circuitry to process analog or digital signals as inputs to play from playback device send to another playback device on a network or both play and send to another playback device on the network. An example input includes a line in connection e.g. an auto detecting 3.5 mm audio line in connection .

The audio amplifier is a device s that amplifies audio signals to a level for driving one or more speakers . The one or more speakers can include an individual transducer e.g. a driver or a complete speaker system that includes an enclosure including one or more drivers. A particular driver can be a subwoofer e.g. for low frequencies a mid range driver e.g. for middle frequencies and a tweeter e.g. for high frequencies for example. An enclosure can be sealed or ported for example. Each transducer may be driven by its own individual amplifier.

A commercial example presently known as the PLAY 5 is a playback device with a built in amplifier and speakers that is capable of retrieving audio directly from the source such as on the Internet or on the local network for example. In particular the PLAY 5 is a five amp five driver speaker system that includes two tweeters two mid range drivers and one woofer. When playing audio content via the PLAY 5 the left audio data of a track is sent out of the left tweeter and left mid range driver the right audio data of a track is sent out of the right tweeter and the right mid range driver and mono bass is sent out of the subwoofer. Further both mid range drivers and both tweeters have the same equalization or substantially the same equalization . That is they are both sent the same frequencies but from different channels of audio. Audio from Internet radio stations online music and video services downloaded music analog audio inputs television DVD and so on can be played from the PLAY 5 .

Referring now to there is shown an example block diagram for controller which can correspond to the controlling device in . Controller can be used to facilitate the control of multi media applications automation and others in a system. In particular the controller may be configured to facilitate a selection of a plurality of audio sources available on the network and enable control of one or more playback devices e.g. the playback devices in through a wireless or wired network interface . According to one embodiment the wireless communications is based on an industry standard e.g. infrared radio wireless standards including IEEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g 802.11n 802.11ac 802.15 4G mobile communication standard and so on . Further when a particular audio is being accessed via the controller or being played via a playback device a picture e.g. album art or any other data associated with the audio and or audio source can be transmitted from a playback device or other electronic device to controller for display.

Controller is provided with a screen and an input interface that allows a user to interact with the controller for example to navigate a playlist of many multimedia items and to control operations of one or more playback devices. The screen on the controller can be an LCD screen for example. The screen communicates with and is commanded by a screen driver that is controlled by a microcontroller e.g. a processor . The memory can be loaded with one or more application modules that can be executed by the microcontroller with or without a user input via the user interface to achieve certain tasks. In some embodiments an application module is configured to facilitate grouping a number of selected playback devices into a zone group to facilitate synchronized playback amongst the playback devices in the zone group. In some embodiments an application module is configured to control the audio sounds e.g. volume of the playback devices in a zone group. In operation when the microcontroller executes one or more of the application modules the screen driver generates control signals to drive the screen to display an application specific user interface accordingly.

The controller includes a network interface that facilitates wired or wireless communication with a playback device. In some embodiments the commands such as volume control and audio playback synchronization are sent via the network interface . In some embodiments a saved zone group configuration is transmitted between a playback device and a controller via the network interface . The controller can control one or more playback devices such as of . There can be more than one controller for a particular system and each controller may share common information with another controller or retrieve the common information from a playback device if such a playback device stores configuration data e.g. such as a state variable . Further a controller can be integrated into a playback device.

It should be noted that other network enabled devices such as an iPhone iPad or any other smart phone or network enabled device e.g. a networked computer such as a PC or Mac can also be used as a controller to interact or control playback devices in a particular environment. In some embodiments a software application or upgrade can be downloaded onto a network enabled device to perform the functions described herein.

In certain embodiments a user can create a zone group also referred to as a bonded zone including at least two playback devices from the controller . The playback devices in the zone group can play audio in a synchronized fashion such that all of the playback devices in the zone group playback an identical audio source or a list of identical audio sources in a synchronized manner such that no or substantially no audible delays or hiccups are to be heard. Similarly in some embodiments when a user increases the audio volume of the group from the controller the signals or data of increasing the audio volume for the group are sent to one of the playback devices and causes other playback devices in the group to be increased together in volume.

A user via the controller can group playback devices into a zone group by activating a Link Zones or Add Zone soft button or de grouping a zone group by activating an Unlink Zones or Drop Zone button. For example one mechanism for joining playback devices together for audio playback is to link a number of playback devices together to form a group. To link a number of playback devices together a user can manually link each playback device or room one after the other. For example assume that there is a multi zone system that includes the following zones Bathroom Bedroom Den Dining Room Family Room and Foyer. In certain embodiments a user can link any number of the six playback devices for example by starting with a single zone and then manually linking each zone to that zone.

In certain embodiments a set of zones can be dynamically linked together using a command to create a zone scene or theme subsequent to first creating the zone scene . For instance a Morning zone scene command can link the Bedroom Office and Kitchen zones together in one action. Without this single command the user would manually and individually link each zone. The single command may include a mouse click a double mouse click a button press a gesture or some other programmed or learned action. Other kinds of zone scenes can be programmed or learned by the system over time.

In certain embodiments a zone scene can be triggered based on time e.g. an alarm clock function . For instance a zone scene can be set to apply at 8 00 am. The system can link appropriate zones automatically set specific music to play and then stop the music after a defined duration and revert the zones to their prior configuration. Although any particular zone can be triggered to an On or Off state based on time for example a zone scene enables any zone s linked to the scene to play a predefined audio e.g. a favorable song a predefined playlist at a specific time and or for a specific duration. If for any reason the scheduled music failed to be played e.g. an empty playlist no connection to a share failed Universal Plug and Play UPnP no Internet connection for an Internet Radio station and so on a backup buzzer can be programmed to sound. The buzzer can include a sound file that is stored in a playback device for example.

As discussed above in some embodiments a playback device may be assigned to a playback queue identifying zero or more media items for playback by the playback device. The media items identified in a playback queue may be represented to the user via an interface on a controller. For instance the representation may show the user or users if more than one controller is connected to the system how the playback device is traversing the playback queue such as by highlighting the now playing item graying out the previously played item s highlighting the to be played item s and so on.

In some embodiments a single playback device is assigned to a playback queue. For example playback device in the bathroom of may be linked or assigned to a Bathroom playback queue. In an embodiment the Bathroom playback queue might have been established by the system as a result of the user naming the playback device to the bathroom. As such contents populated and identified in the Bathroom playback queue can be played via the playback device the bathroom zone .

In some embodiments a zone or zone group is assigned to a playback queue. For example playback devices and in the family room of may be linked or assigned to a Family room playback queue. In another example if family room and dining room zones were grouped then the new group would be linked or assigned to a family room dining room playback queue. In some embodiments the family room dining room playback queue would be established based upon the creation of the group. In some embodiments upon establishment of the new group the family room dining room playback queue can automatically include the contents of one or both of the playback queues associated with either the family room or dining room or both. In one instance if the user started with the family room and added the dining room then the contents of the family room playback queue would become the contents of the family room dining room playback queue. In another instance if the user started with the family room and added the dining room then the family room playback queue would be renamed to the family room dining room playback queue. If the new group was ungrouped then the family room dining room playback queue may be removed from the system and or renamed to one of the zones e.g. renamed to family room or dining room . After ungrouping each of the family room and the dining room will be assigned to a separate playback queue. One or more of the playback devices in the zone or zone group may store in memory the associated playback queue.

As such when zones or zone groups are grouped or ungrouped dynamically by the user via a controller the system will in some embodiments establish or remove rename playback queues respectively as each zone or zone group is to be assigned to a playback queue. In other words the playback queue operates as a container that can be populated with media items for playback by the assigned zone. In some embodiments the media items identified in a playback queue can be manipulated e.g. re arranged added to deleted from and so on . By way of illustration shows an example network for media content playback. As shown the example network includes example playback devices and example audio sources and and example media items . The example media items may include playlist music track favorite Internet radio station playlists and and album . In one embodiment the playback devices and may be any of the playback devices shown in . For instance playback devices and may be the playback devices and in the Family Room.

In one example the example audio sources and and example media items may be partially stored on a cloud network discussed more below in connection to . In some cases the portions of the audio sources and example media items may be stored locally on one or both of the playback devices and . In one embodiment playlist favorite Internet radio station and playlist may be stored locally and music track playlist and album may be stored on the cloud network.

Each of the example media items may be a list of media items playable by a playback device s . In one embodiment the example media items may be a collection of links or pointers i.e. URI to the underlying data for media items that are stored elsewhere such as the audio sources and . In another embodiment the media items may include pointers to media content stored on the local playback device another playback device over a local network or a controller device connected to the local network.

As shown the example network may also include an example queue associated with the playback device and an example queue associated with the playback device . Queue may be associated with a group when in existence comprising playback devices and . Queue might comprise a new queue or exist as a renamed version of queue or . In some embodiments in a group the playback devices and would be assigned to queue and queue and would not be available at that time. In some embodiments when the group is no longer in existence queue is no longer available. Each playback device and each combination of playback devices in a network of playback devices such as those shown in or that of example playback devices and example combination may be uniquely assigned to a corresponding playback queue.

A playback queue such as playback queues may include identification of media content to be played by the corresponding playback device or combination of playback devices. As such media items added to the playback queue are to be played by the corresponding playback device or combination of playback devices. The playback device may be configured to play items in the queue according to a specific order such as an order in which the items were added in a random order or in some other order.

The playback queue may include a combination of playlists and other media items added to the queue. In one embodiment the items in playback queue to be played by the playback device may include items from the audio sources or any of the media items . The playback queue may also include items stored locally on the playback device or items accessible from the playback device . For instance the playback queue may include Internet radio and album items from audio source and items stored on the playback device .

When a media item is added to the queue via an interface of a controller a link to the item may be added to the queue. In a case of adding a playlist to the queue links to the media items in the playlist may be provided to the queue. For example the playback queue may include pointers from the Internet radio and album pointers to items on the audio source and pointers to items on the playback device . In another case a link to the playlist for example rather than a link to the media items in the playlist may be provided to the queue and the playback device or combination of playback devices may play the media items in the playlist by accessing the media items via the playlist. For example the album may include pointers to items stored on audio source . Rather than adding links to the items on audio source a link to the album may be added to the playback queue such that the playback device may play the items on the audio source by accessing the items via pointers in the album .

In some cases contents as they exist at a point in time within a playback queue may be stored as a playlist and subsequently added to the same queue later or added to another queue. For example contents of the playback queue at a particular point in time may be saved as a playlist stored locally on the playback device and or on the cloud network. The saved playlist may then be added to playback queue to be played by playback device .

Particular examples are now provided in connection with to describe for purposes of illustration certain embodiments to provide and facilitate connection to a playback network. shows that there are three playback devices and and a controller that form a network branch that is also referred to as an Ad Hoc network . The network may be wireless wired or a combination of wired and wireless technologies. In general an Ad Hoc or spontaneous network is a local area network or other small network in which there is generally no one access point for all traffic. With an established Ad Hoc network the devices and can all communicate with each other in a peer to peer style of communication for example. Furthermore devices may join and or leave from the network and the network will automatically reconfigure itself without needing the user to reconfigure the network . While an Ad Hoc network is referenced in it is understood that a playback network may be based on a type of network that is completely or partially different from an Ad Hoc network.

Using the Ad Hoc network the devices and can share or exchange one or more audio sources and be dynamically grouped or ungrouped to play the same or different audio sources. For example the devices and are grouped to playback one piece of music and at the same time the device plays back another piece of music. In other words the devices and as shown in form a HOUSEHOLD that distributes audio and or reproduces sound. As used herein the term HOUSEHOLD provided in uppercase letters to disambiguate from the user s domicile is used to represent a collection of networked devices that are cooperating to provide an application or service. An instance of a HOUSEHOLD is identified with a household or household identifier though a HOUSEHOLD may be identified with a different area or place.

In certain embodiments a household identifier HHID is a short string or an identifier that is computer generated to help ensure that it is unique. Accordingly the network can be characterized by a unique HHID and a unique set of configuration variables or parameters such as channels e.g. respective frequency bands service set identifier SSID a sequence of alphanumeric characters as a name of a wireless network and WEP keys wired equivalent privacy or other security keys. In certain embodiments SSID is set to be the same as HHID.

In certain embodiments each HOUSEHOLD includes two types of network nodes a control point CP and a playback device ZP . The control point controls an overall network setup process and sequencing including an automatic generation of required network parameters e.g. security keys . In an embodiment the CP also provides the user with a HOUSEHOLD configuration user interface. The CP function can be provided by a computer running a CP application module or by a handheld controller e.g. the controller also running a CP application module for example. The playback device is any other device on the network that is placed to participate in the automatic configuration process. The ZP as a notation used herein includes the controller or a computing device for example. In some embodiments the functionality or certain parts of the functionality in both the CP and the ZP are combined at a single node e.g. a ZP contains a CP or vice versa .

In certain embodiments configuration of a HOUSEHOLD involves multiple CPs and ZPs that rendezvous and establish a known configuration such that they can use a standard networking protocol e.g. IP over Wired or Wireless Ethernet for communication. In an embodiment two types of networks protocols are employed Ethernet 802.3 and Wireless 802.11g. Interconnections between a CP and a ZP can use either of the networks protocols. A device in the system as a member of a HOUSEHOLD can connect to both networks simultaneously.

In an environment that has both networks in use it is assumed that at least one device in a system is connected to both as a bridging device thus providing bridging services between wired wireless networks for others. The playback device in is shown to be connected to both networks for example. The connectivity to the network is based on Ethernet and or Wireless while the connectivity to other devices and is based on Wireless and Ethernet if so desired.

It is understood however that in some embodiments each playback device may access the Internet when retrieving media from the cloud e.g. the Internet via the bridging device. For example playback device may contain a uniform resource locator URL that specifies an address to a particular audio track in the cloud. Using the URL the playback device may retrieve the audio track from the cloud and ultimately play the audio out of one or more playback devices.

As illustrated by the example system of a plurality of content providers can be connected to one or more local playback networks via a cloud and or other network . Using the cloud a multimedia audio system server e.g. Sonos a mobile device a third party application a content provider and so on can provide multimedia content requested or otherwise to local playback networks . Within each local playback network a controller and a playback device can be used to playback audio content.

Certain embodiments described herein relate to a software application that is configured to operate as an add on software component to audio playback software on a playback device of a media playback system.

Audio playback software refers to software installed on a playback device by the manufacturer in order for the playback device to reproduce audio and perform other functions. Versions of audio playback software can be updated from time to time. By way of illustration playback devices offered for sale by Sonos Inc. are purchased with audio playback software and such software is be upgradable to newer versions of the audio playback software as new versions are released.

In an embodiment a controller of a media playback system may display on the user interface of the controller an application identifier in association with a zone identifier. The zone identifier may identify a zone of the media playback system where the zone includes one or more playback devices that have audio playback software installed thereon. The application identifier may indicate that a software application installed on one or more of the playback devices is actively configured to operate as an add on software component to the audio playback software.

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein the flowchart shows functionality and operation of one possible implementation of present embodiments. In this regard each block may represent a module a segment or a portion of program code which includes one or more instructions executable by a processor for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. The program code may be stored on any type of computer readable medium for example such as a storage device including a disk or hard drive. The computer readable medium may include non transitory computer readable medium for example such as computer readable media that stores data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and Random Access Memory RAM . The computer readable medium may also include non transitory media such as secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable media may also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. The computer readable medium may be considered a computer readable storage medium for example or a tangible storage device. In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein each block in may represent circuitry that is wired to perform the specific logical functions in the process.

At block method involves displaying on a user interface of a controller of a media playback system a zone identifier that identifies a zone of the media playback system where the zone includes a playback device that has audio playback software installed thereon. The controller may be any suitable controller including for example the controller described above in connection with .

The user interface may be any suitable user interface communicatively coupled to the controllers and may be remote from and or local to the controller. In an embodiment the user interface may be a graphical display that is physically integrated with the controller. For instance the graphical display may take the form of a screen that is a part of the controller such as screen described above in connection with controller shown in . In another embodiment the user interface may be a graphical display that is physically separated from the controller.

The zone or similarly zone group may be any suitable arrangement of one or more playback devices including for example the playback devices described above in connection with and . The playback device s may be any suitable playback device including for example any playback device described in . The audio playback software installed on the playback device may be any suitable software that assists in audio playback on a playback device including for example module described above with respect to . The audio playback software may assist in functions of the playback device including for example playback of audio and interfacing between playback devices and or audio sources in a media playback system among other examples.

In zone identifier is shown as a circle enclosing the descriptor z . In an embodiment the descriptor z may indicate a first zone. The first zone may be referred to as zone one. While shows a numeric descriptor visual indication of zone identifier may take any suitable form. For example zone identifier may be indicated by a word descriptor such as Living Room or Bedroom. Or in other embodiments zone identifier may be indicated by one or more graphical elements or animations. Many other examples of identifying symbols numbers letters words or phrases are possible as well.

In further embodiments additional zone identifiers may also be displayed on graphical display each of which may indicate a respective zone. In some embodiments such additional zones may be indicated by numbers such as 2 3 or 4 . In other embodiments zones may be identified by descriptors such as Living Room Bedroom or Office. In yet other embodiments zones may be indicated by one or more graphical elements or animations. Many other examples are possible as well.

In an embodiment zone identifier may be selectable such that a user of the controller may select zone identifier to start audio playing in zone one to make zone one active or to make zone one presently under control by the controller among other examples.

Graphical display is shown as also including elements other than zone identifier . However it should be understood that no such other elements need to be displayed. These other elements discussed further below are shown for purposes of example and explanation only. In a given embodiment and at a given point in time such elements as well as other elements not shown may be displayed by the graphical display coincident with the display of zone identifier .

Graphical display is also shown as including track album art . Track album art may provide any suitable and or desirable graphical representation of an audio track that is currently being played such as album art associated with the track. Graphical display is also shown as including audio identification . Audio identification may include indications including for example an indication of the artist name the track name the album name and the name of a next song to be played. However neither track album art nor audio identification need necessarily be displayed.

Graphical display is further shown as including playback controls . Playback controls may include but need not necessarily include for example a forward button a back button a pause button and or a play button.

In an embodiment where the graphical display corresponds to a touch interface zone identifier and playback controls may be selectable for example by the proximity of a human hand the touch of a human finger or a stylus to the touch interface and so on. In an embodiment where the graphical display does not correspond to a touch interface zone identifier and playback controls may be selected by use of a pointer device coupled to the controller such as a mouse. Other examples may exist as well.

Referring back to at block method involves displaying on the user interface of the controller an application identifier in association with the zone identifier where the application identifier indicates that a software application installed on the playback device is configured to operate as an add on software component to the audio playback software. In some embodiments when the software application is presently operating as an add on software component the software application may be referred to as active. Conversely when the software application is not presently operating as an add on software component the software application may be referred to as inactive or disabled.

In further embodiments additional application identifiers may also be displayed on graphical display where each additional application identifier indicates a respective software application. Such additional playback devices may be indicated by descriptors in the form of letters such as a or b . In other embodiments software applications may be identified by word descriptors. As noted above many other examples of identifying symbols numbers letters words or phrases are certainly possible. In some embodiments graphical icons drawings and animations may be used as identifiers as well.

In some embodiments when the software application is inactive the application identifier may change its appearance such as by dimming or graying out the application identifier. In other embodiments the application identifier is not displayed on the user interface when the software application is inactive. In further embodiments when the software application is active the change in appearance of the application identifier may be reversed such as by not dimming the application identifier. When more than one application identifier is displayed on the graphical display in some embodiments the application identifier indicating an active software application may appear on the graphical display and the other application identifiers indicating inactive software applications may be dimmed.

In an embodiment the software application may be configured to operate as an add on software component to the audio playback software. In some embodiments the software application may be configured to add to functionality of the audio playback software. For example the software application may add additional features to the audio playback software. For example the software application may add additional audio processing features to the audio playback software.

In other embodiments the software application may be configured to alter functionality of the audio playback software. For example the software application may be configured to operate as one or more equalizer pre sets that adjust frequency components of audio played by the media playback device. In some embodiments the one or more equalizer pre sets may relate to specific genres of music. For example a particular equalizer pre set for rock music may increase the amplitude of mid range frequencies while another particular equalizer for pop music may increase the low range and high range frequencies. In other embodiments the one or more equalizer pre sets may relate to one or more artists. For example a particular equalizer pre set may be set according to the preference of the artist. In other embodiments the one or more equalizer pre sets may relate to one or more music labels.

By way of illustration a developer may write a software application that extends or enhances functionality of the media playback system. In some cases the developer may be a third party in relation to manufacturers of the media playback system and users of the media playback system. However it is understood that the manufacturer instead of or in addition to a third party developer may also develop software applications that can be layered on the audio playback software. Regardless of the developer each user of a particular media playback system can choose which software applications to install and assign to their respective media playback system. Software applications may be offered for an additional cost. In some circumstances software applications may be offered free of charge or free via an advertisement support. To facilitate development by third party developers of software applications configured to operate as add on software components manufacturers of playback device may provide an application programming interface API that specifies how software applications should operate with the audio playback software.

As noted above in some embodiments the one or more equalizer pre sets may relate to equalizer preferences that may be configured by a user. For example the equalizer preferences may be individual preferences of a user of the media playback system. Or the equalizer preferences may be a particular artist s preferences a particular music producer s preferences or a particular composer s preferences among other examples.

In some embodiments before displaying the application identifier in association with the zone identifier the controller may determine that the application identifier is in association with the zone identifier. The determination may be based on a song such as a currently playing song. For example the determination may be based on metadata of the currently playing song.

In some embodiments the controller may operate according to one or more user profiles. A particular one of the one or more user profiles may indicate the currently active user. In such embodiments before displaying the application identifier in association with the zone identifier the controller may determine whether the user profile is authorized to activate the software application indicated by the application identifier. The determination may be based on whether the user profile is associated with a license. For example licenses to the software application may be purchased on a per user basis where each license of the software application is linked to a respective user. The user of the controller may be identified based on user authentication data such as a user name and password combination a passcode or a user profile among other types of user authentication data.

In some embodiments the controller may determine whether operation of the software application is authorized before displaying the application identifier in association with the zone identifier. In one embodiment the determination may be based on whether the software application is active in any other zones of the media playback system. For example the software application may have a per unit charge such that a single license of the software application may allow the software application to operate as an add on software component to the audio playback software in one zone at a time.

In some embodiments the controller may cause the software application to be installed on the playback device. For example the controller may send the software application to the playback device. Or the controller may cause the playback device to download the software application from a remote server or another device on the local network. The software application may be installed in memory such as memory in . The software application may be installed on the playback device in any suitable fashion. One of skill in the art will recognize that there are many techniques of causing software to be installed.

In another embodiment the controller receives the software application from a network device such as for example a remote server. The remote server may be connected to the controller via a network such as the networks described in or for example. In such embodiments the controller may receive the software application from the remote server via a network interface such as network interface as described in for example.

In some embodiments the controller may assign the software application to the zone. Assigning the software application to the zone may involve enabling or activating the software on one or more playback devices in the zone such that the software application operates as an add on software component to audio playback software on one or more of the playback devices. However in some embodiments the software application may be assigned to the zone and be inactive.

Alternatively assigning the software application to the zone may involve sending the software application to the playback device. For example the controller may send the software application to the playback device. Or the controller may cause a remote server to send the software application to the playback device. Other examples are possible as well.

As noted above shows application identifier as a black circle enclosing the descriptor app. Such an application identifier may indicate that the software application indicated by application identifier is presently assigned to the zone. In contrast shows application identifier as a white circle enclosing the descriptor app. Such an application identifier may indicate that the software application indicated by application identifier is not presently assigned to the zone. One having skill in the art will recognize that indications of currently assigned software applications may be made in any suitable manner. Indications of currently assigned software applications are not necessary to method but may appear in some embodiments.

In an embodiment the controller determines that the zone is playing audio where the audio played is associated with the software application. For example the played audio may be a song that has associated characteristics such as metadata which may include one or more of an artist a label a genre a music producer and or an album among other examples. As noted above the controller may be configured to retrieve and navigate a playlist of audio items modify and or clear the playback queue of one or more playback devices control other operations of one or more playback devices and provide overall control of the system configuration. In an embodiment the controller may refer to the playback queue of the playback device and determine the track to be played if any and the characteristics associated with the track. If the characteristics associated with the track correspond to the software application the controller may cause the software application to be executed on the playback device.

In an embodiment the controller determines that the software application has been disassociated with the zone. In some embodiments the software application may become disassociated when the played audio associated with the software application stops playing such as a track ends or when a another track is selected by using playback controls such as playback controls in . In response to the determination the controller may remove the application identifier from being displayed on the user interface of the controller. In some embodiments the application identifier may be removed from the user interface. In other embodiments the application identifier may appear in other forms that indicate that the software application has become disassociated with the zone.

In an embodiment the zone may include two or more playback devices. Each of the two or more playback devices may have audio playback software installed thereon. In such embodiments the software application may be installed on each of the two or more playback devices and may be configured to operate as an add on software component to the audio playback software installed on each respective playback device. In other embodiments the software application may be installed on a subset of the playback devices in the zone and may be configured to operate as an add on software component to the audio playback software installed on each respective playback device in the subset of playback devices in the zone.

As noted above in some embodiments the media playback system may include multiple zones. In an embodiment the controller may reassign the software application from the zone to a different zone. Reassigning the software application may cause the software application to operate as the add on software component to audio playback software on one or more playback devices of the different zone and no longer operate on the previous zone.

In contrast shows an example user interface after the controller reassigns the software application from the first zone to a different zone. In some embodiments the controller may remove the application identifier in association with the zone identifier from being displayed on the user interface. As shown in zone identifier A is removed from graphical display B and zone identifier B is displayed after the controller reassigns the software application from zone A to zone B. In further embodiments the controller may display on the user interface of the controller the application identifier in association with a zone identifier associated with the different zone. For example depicts an example user interface in the form of a graphical display B provided by a controller in accordance with method after the software application in association with a zone identifier associated with the different zone. In this example the zone identifier associated with the different zone is zone identifier B. As noted above in application identifier A indicating the software application is in association with zone identifier A identifying zone 1 as shown . In after the controller reassigns the software application from the zone to a different zone application identifier B also indicating the software application is in association with zone identifier B identifying zone 2 as shown . Other techniques for displaying on the user interface of the controller the application identifier in association with a zone identifier associated with the different zone are possible as well.

User interfaces A and B shown in respectively may optionally include additional elements. For example user interfaces A and B may include track album art audio identification and or playback controls as shown. These other elements discussed further above are shown for purposes of example and explanation only. In a given embodiment and at a given point in time such elements as well as other elements not shown may be displayed by the graphical display.

Returning to user interface includes application identifiers and . Application identifiers and are shown in association with zone identifier while application identifier is shown in association with zone identifier . Application identifier is shown with as white text with a black background to indicate an active software application while application identifier is shown as black text with a white background to indicate an inactive software application. As noted above many alternatives for distinguishing between an active and an inactive software applications exist.

As discussed above embodiments described herein may relate to a software application that is configured to operate as an add on software component to audio playback software on a playback device of a media playback system. In some embodiments the software application is developed by a third party who wishes to create a software application for use by the media playback system. In some embodiments the software application may be assigned to one or more playback devices of the same zone and or different zones. As discussed above the software application may be configured to add or to alter functionality of the audio playback software.

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein the flowchart shows functionality and operation of one possible implementation of present embodiments. In this regard each block may represent a module a segment or a portion of program code which includes one or more instructions executable by a processor for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. The program code may be stored on any type of computer readable medium for example such as a storage device including a disk or hard drive. The computer readable medium may include non transitory computer readable medium for example such as computer readable media that stores data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and Random Access Memory RAM . The computer readable medium may also include non transitory media such as secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable media may also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. The computer readable medium may be considered a computer readable storage medium for example or a tangible storage device. In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein each block in may represent circuitry that is wired to perform the specific logical functions in the process.

At block the playback device provides an interface to receive a software application on a playback device where the playback device a is configured to play audio in a zone of a media playback system and b has audio playback software installed thereon. For example the playback device may be any playback device as described in . In some embodiments the playback devices described in may be configured to play audio in a zone of a media playback system and may have audio playback software installed thereon.

The interface may include any suitable mechanism for receiving a software application. For example the interface may include a network interface such as network interface . As noted above network interface may include one or both of wireless interface and wired interface . In some embodiments the interface may include one or more modules such as module which may assist in receiving the software application.

In some embodiments after providing the interface to receive the software application on a playback device the playback device receives via the interface the software application from a remote server. For example the playback device may receive the software application over network interface including one or both of wireless interface or wireless interface . The remote server may be any suitable server for sending a software application.

In further embodiments the playback device may install the software application on the playback device. The software application may be installed on the playback device in any suitable fashion. For example the playback device may store the software application on a computer readable medium such as in memory in . One of skill in the art will recognize that there are many techniques of causing software to be installed

In some embodiments the playback device receives a command to remove the software application from the playback device. The command may be sent from a controller of the media playback system such as controller in . The command may be received via a network interface such as network interface . In some embodiments removing the software application from the playback device may involve uninstalling the software application from the playback device. For example the playback device may delete the software application from the computer readable medium.

In some embodiments the software application may be configured to alter functionality of the audio playback software on the playback device. In some embodiments the software application is further configured to change the audio playback volume of the playback device at one or more frequency ranges. In some embodiments changing the audio playback volume of the playback device at one or more frequency ranges may be referred to as operating as one or more equalizer pre sets but changing the audio playback volume of the playback device at one or more frequency ranges may involve additional or alternative functions to operating as one or more equalizer pre sets.

For example the software application may be configured to operate as one or more equalizer pre sets that adjust frequency components of audio played by the media playback device. In some embodiments the one or more equalizer pre sets may relate to specific genres of music. For example a particular equalizer pre set for rock music may increase the amplitude of mid range frequencies while another particular equalizer for pop music may increase the low range and high range frequencies. In other embodiments the one or more equalizer pre sets may relate to one or more artists. For example a particular equalizer pre set may be set according to the preference of the artist. In other embodiments the one or more equalizer pre sets may relate to one or more music labels.

As noted above in some embodiments the one or more equalizer pre sets may relate to equalizer preferences that may be configured by a user. For example the equalizer preferences may be individual preferences of a user of the media playback system. Or the equalizer preferences may be a particular artist s preferences a particular music producer s preferences or a particular composer s preferences among other examples.

At block the playback device sends status information to the controller of the media playback system where the status information indicates that the software application is installed on the playback device. The status information may be sent via a network interface such as network interface . In some embodiments the status information may be sent via a network message. Other examples are possible as well.

The playback device may determine whether the software application is installed on the playback device. For example the playback device may determine whether the software application is installed on the playback device by referring to a memory such as memory in . In some embodiments the software application may be installed in the memory.

In some embodiments the playback device sends status information to the controller of the media playback system where the status information indicates that the software application is assigned to the zone of the media playback system. The status information may be sent via a network interface such as network interface . The playback device may determine whether the software application is assigned to the zone of the media playback system. For example the playback device may determine whether the software application is assigned to the zone of the media playback system by referring to a memory such as memory in .

In some embodiments assigning the software application to the zone may involve enabling or activating the software on the playback device in the zone such that the software application operates as an add on software component to audio playback software on the playback device.

At block the playback device receives a command from a controller of the media playback system to assign the software application to the zone of the media playback system where the software application is configured to operate as an add on software component to the audio playback software. The command may be received via a network interface such as network interface .

In an embodiment the playback device installs the software application on the playback device in response to receiving the command to assign the software application to the zone before installing the software application. For example if the software application is not installed on the playback device when the command to assign the software application to the zone is received the playback device may install the software application in response to the command.

The command may include data representing user input that instructs the playback device to assign the software application to the zone of the media playback system. The user input may relate to an input interface on a controller such as input interface in . In some embodiments the input interface may correspond to a touch interface on a graphical display. In other embodiments the input interface may correspond to use of a pointer device coupled to the controller such as a mouse. Other examples may exist as well.

For example referring to the command may relate to selection of application identifier to assign a particular software application indicated by application identifier . Or the command may relate to selection of application identifier to assign a particular software application indicated by application identifier .

In some embodiments the controller may assign the software application to the zone. In some embodiments assigning the software application to the zone may involve enabling or activating the software on the playback device in the zone such that the software application operates as an add on software component to audio playback software on the playback device. As described above the software application may have one or more functions related to the audio playback software when the software application operates as the add on software component to audio playback software on the playback device.

In some embodiments the playback device may cause an application identifier in association with a zone identifier to be displayed on a user interface of a controller when the software application indicated by the application identifier is assigned and or active.

In some embodiments the playback device may receive a command to play an audio content and execute the software application on the playback device to alter the audio content when the software application is assigned to the zone of the media playback system. As described above the software application may have one or more functions related to the audio playback software when the software application operates as the add on software component to audio playback software on the playback device.

The descriptions above disclose various example systems methods apparatus and articles of manufacture including among other components firmware and or software executed on hardware. However such examples are merely illustrative and should not be considered as limiting. For example it is contemplated that any or all of these firmware hardware and or software components can be embodied exclusively in hardware exclusively in software exclusively in firmware or in any combination of hardware software and or firmware. Accordingly while the following describes example systems methods apparatus and or articles of manufacture the examples provided are not the only way s to implement such systems methods apparatus and or articles of manufacture.

As indicated above the present application relates to a software application that is configured to operate as an add on software component to audio playback software on a media playback device. In one aspect a method is provided. The method involves displaying on a user interface of a controller of a media playback system a zone identifier that identifies a zone of the media playback system where the zone includes a playback device that has audio playback software installed thereon. The method also involves displaying on the user interface of the controller an application identifier in association with the zone identifier where the application identifier indicates that a software application installed on the playback device is configured to operate as an add on software component to the audio playback software.

In another aspect a device is provided. The device includes a user interface a network interface a processor a data storage and a program logic stored in the data storage and executable by the processor to display on the user interface of the controller of a media playback system a zone identifier that identifies a zone of the media playback system where the zone includes a playback device that has audio playback software installed thereon and display on the user interface of the controller an application identifier in association with the zone identifier where the application identifier indicates that a software application installed on the playback device is configured to operate as an add on software component to the audio playback software.

In another aspect a non transitory computer readable memory is provided. The non transitory computer readable memory has stored thereon instructions executable by a controller to cause the controller to perform functions. The functions include displaying on a user interface of a controller of a media playback system a zone identifier that identifies a zone of the media playback system where the zone includes a playback device that has audio playback software installed thereon. The functions further include displaying on the user interface of the controller an application identifier in association with the zone identifier where the application identifier indicates that a software application installed on the playback device is configured to operate as an add on software component to the audio playback software.

In another aspect a second method is provided. The method involves displaying providing an interface to receive a software application on a playback device where the playback device a is configured to play audio in a zone of a media playback system and b has audio playback software installed thereon sending status information to a controller of the media playback system where the status information indicates that the software application is installed on the playback device and receiving a command from the controller of the media playback system to assign the software application to the zone of the media playback system where the software application is configured to operate as an add on software component to the audio playback software.

In another aspect a media playback device is provided. The media playback device includes a network interface a processor a data storage and a program logic stored in the data storage and executable by the processor to receive a software application via a network interface where the media playback device a is configured to play audio in a zone of a media playback system and b has audio playback software installed thereon send status information to a controller of the media playback system where the status information indicates that the software application is installed on the playback device and receive a command from the controller of the media playback system to assign the software application to the zone of the media playback system where the software application is configured to operate as an add on software component to the audio playback software.

In another aspect a second non transitory computer readable medium is provided. The non transitory computer readable memory has stored thereon instructions executable by a controller to cause the controller to perform functions. The functions include receiving a command from a controller of a media playback system to assign a software application to a zone of the media playback system where the playback device a is configured to play audio in the zone of the media playback system and b has audio playback software installed thereon providing an interface to receive the software application on the playback device where the software application is configured to operate as an add on software component to the audio playback software and sending status information to a controller of the media playback system where the status information indicates that the software application is installed on the playback device.

Additionally references herein to embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment can be included in at least one example embodiment of the invention. The appearances of this phrase in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. As such the embodiments described herein explicitly and implicitly understood by one skilled in the art can be combined with other embodiments.

The specification is presented largely in terms of illustrative environments systems procedures steps logic blocks processing and other symbolic representations that directly or indirectly resemble the operations of data processing devices coupled to networks. These process descriptions and representations are typically used by those skilled in the art to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. Numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. However it is understood to those skilled in the art that certain embodiments of the present disclosure can be practiced without certain specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuitry have not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring aspects of the embodiments. Accordingly the scope of the present disclosure is defined by the appended claims rather than the forgoing description of embodiments.

When any of the appended claims are read to cover a purely software and or firmware implementation at least one of the elements in at least one example is hereby expressly defined to include a tangible medium such as a memory DVD CD Blu ray and so on storing the software and or firmware.

