---

title: Analyzing a particular wireless signal based on characteristics of other wireless signals
abstract: The present disclosure discloses a system and method for classifying Wi-Fi signals from Fourier transform samples. Generally, classifying Wi-Fi signals from Fourier transform samples includes: collecting and dividing Fourier transform samples into frequency blocks; determining the bandwidth for the Fourier transform sample; and determining whether the Fourier transform sample corresponds to a narrowband signal. Further, if a determination is made that the Fourier transform sample does not correspond to a narrowband signal, channel utilization is calculated based on a determination that the FFT sample corresponds to a Wi-Fi signal. If it is determined that the Fourier transform sample corresponds to a narrowband signal, then a determination is made that the FFT sample corresponds to a Wi-Fi signal based on certain criteria. The certain criteria may include one or more of a slope value, a number of sub-peak bins, an analysis of adjacent channels, characteristic matching, or other criteria.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09467893&OS=09467893&RS=09467893
owner: Aruba Networks, Inc.
number: 09467893
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160418
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 097 198 filed Dec. 4 2013 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to detecting and classifying Wi Fi signatures from Fourier Transform samples e.g. Fast Fourier Transform FFT samples. In particular the present disclosure relates to classifying Wi Fi signals from Fourier transform samples to minimize false detections.

Wireless digital networks provide users secure and cost effective access to resources. Such wireless digital networks typically have a plurality of access points AP located throughout a designated area by which the users can access the resources they desire. Wi Fi networks operating in accordance with IEEE 802.11 standards are examples of such networks. The frequencies used by these networks are shared. They are shared not only among the wireless digital networks themselves but also with other non network devices. These shared frequencies face intermittent and continuous interference received from other non network devices including radio frequency devices such as microwave ovens wireless video streaming devices cordless telephones and the like as well as other adjacent wireless networking devices. Unfortunately the effects of these types of interfering devices can vary. As an example simply replacing or adding a microwave oven in a particular area where a particular wireless digital network is operating can dramatically alter the interference levels present within that particular wireless digital network.

To identify the sources of interference that obstruct operation of a wireless digital network various types of test equipment and functionalities are used for example spectrum analyzers. Although sophisticated spectrum analyzers exist which include receivers that may be calibrated to display and measure signals over a wide range of frequencies and amplitudes such sophisticated devices are costly and often not used for continuous monitoring and management of wireless digital networks. Wireless digital networks contain access points AP and wireless client devices both examples of narrowband network radio devices with spectrum data collection functionality.

A radio has the capability to receive Wi Fi packets as well as non Wi Fi interference which is received as Fourier transform samples. Not all Wi Fi is received as Wi Fi signals and not all non Wi Fi are received as Fourier transform samples. False detection may happen for example Wi Fi packets may be received as FFT samples. Often a majority of false detections of interferers are caused by the existence of Wi Fi frames on the air that the radio cannot decode. For example an 11n radio will not be able to decode wireless frames in compliance with IEEE 802.11ac standard and a 20 MHz radio will not be able to decode 40 MHz frames. Similarly a radio that does not support optional formats such as STBC LDPC and Greenfield will not be able to decode these frames. In addition frames on adjacent channels may also simply appear as energy on the channel. Since Wi Fi frames may have large enough duration and the fixed FFT signature these are highly likely to be classified as a fixed frequency or a frequency hopping interferer. Therefore methods are required to filter out the FFTs that are generated by Wi Fi frames in order to minimize false detections. In addition the accurate classification of FFT signatures non Wi Fi interferer vs. Wi Fi will also improve the accuracy of the channel utilization or duty cycle calculations.

Therefore it is desirable to have enhanced ways for accurately classifying interferers as well as minimize the number of false detections.

In the following description several specific details are presented to provide a thorough understanding. While the context of the disclosure is directed to task processing and resource sharing in a distributed wireless system one skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the concepts and techniques disclosed herein can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or in combination with other components etc. In other instances well known implementations or operations are not shown or described in details to avoid obscuring aspects of various examples disclosed herein. It should be understood that this disclosure covers all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the present disclosure.

Some embodiments of the present disclosure relates to classifying Wi Fi signals from Fourier transform samples. Generally classifying Wi Fi signals from Fourier transform samples includes collecting and dividing Fourier transform samples into frequency blocks determining the bandwidth for the Fourier transform sample and determining whether the Fourier transform sample corresponds to a narrowband signal. Further if a determination is made that the Fourier transform sample does not correspond to a narrowband signal channel utilization is calculated based on a determination that the FFT sample corresponds to a Wi Fi signal. If it is determined that the Fourier transform sample corresponds to a narrowband signal then a determination is made that the FFT sample corresponds to a Wi Fi signal based on certain criteria. The certain criteria may include one or more of a slope value a number of sub peak bins an analysis of adjacent channels characteristic matching or other criteria.

In some embodiments classifying Wi Fi signals from Fourier transform samples is based on slope values. In such embodiments the detecting and classifying includes determining for each of a plurality of frequency bins in a Fourier Transform sample a corresponding signal strength the Fourier Transform sample corresponding to a wireless signal as detected at a first time period identifying a first frequency bin from the plurality of frequency bins with a first signal strength the first signal strength being a highest signal strength in the signal strengths corresponding to each of the plurality of frequency bins determining a decrease in signal strength between a the first signal strength corresponding to the first bin and b a second signal strength corresponding to a second bin in the plurality of bins and based at least on the decrease in signal strength and a frequency difference between the first bin and the second bin classifying the Fourier Transform sample.

In some embodiments classifying Wi Fi signals from Fourier transform samples is based on a number of sub peak bins. In such embodiments the classifying includes determining for each of a plurality of frequency bins in a Fourier Transform sample a corresponding signal strength the Fourier Transform sample corresponding to a wireless signal as detected at a first time period identifying a first frequency bin from the plurality of frequency bins with a first signal strength the first signal strength being a highest signal strength in the signal strengths corresponding to each of the plurality of frequency bins identifying a subset of the plurality of frequency bins each particular bin in the subset of frequency bins corresponding to signal strengths that is a lower than the first signal strength b higher than at least the signal strength for n consecutive frequency bins in the plurality of frequency bins preceding the particular bin and c higher than at least the signal strength for m consecutive frequency bins in the plurality of frequency bins subsequent to the particular bin and based on a number of frequency bins in the subset of frequency bins classifying the Fourier Transform sample. In some embodiments the sub peak frequency bin is any frequency bin corresponding to a signal strengths that is a lower than the first signal strength b higher than at least the signal strength for n consecutive frequency bins in the plurality of frequency bins preceding the particular bin and c higher than at least the signal strength for m consecutive frequency bins in the plurality of frequency bins subsequent to the particular bin. The detecting and classifying further includes determining a signal type for the signal based at least on the number of sub peak frequency bins within the particular number of frequency bins from the peak frequency bin.

In some embodiments classifying Wi Fi signals from Fourier transform samples is based on analysis of adjacent channels. In such embodiments the classifying includes detecting a plurality of wireless signals on a corresponding plurality of frequency channels classifying each of the plurality of wireless signals as Wi Fi signals or non Wi Fi signals and analyzing information for the wireless signals from the plurality of wireless signals that were classified as Wi Fi signals to identify at least two of the wireless signals detected on two corresponding channels as a portion of a same Wi Fi transmission from a same source device. In some embodiments the wireless signal is near an edge of the second radio frequency channel shared with the first radio frequency channel.

In some embodiments detecting and classifying Wi Fi signals from FFT samples is based on characteristic matching. In such embodiments the detecting and classifying includes detecting a first wireless signal determining that at least a portion of the characteristics associated with the first wireless signal matches that of a second wireless signal that was previously classified as a Wi Fi signal and classifying the first wireless signal as a Wi Fi signal based at least on the determination that at least a portion of the characteristics associated with the first wireless signal matches the second wireless signal.

In some embodiments detecting and classifying Wi Fi signals from FFT samples is based on other combination criteria. In such embodiments the detecting and classifying includes detecting a first wireless signal corresponding to a frequency band identifying different subsections of the frequency band and corresponding component wireless signals in the different subsections the component wireless signals forming the first wireless signal selecting a plurality of combinations of component wireless signals using the different subsections classifying the plurality of combinations of component wireless signals as Wi Fi signals or non Wi Fi signals and determining that the first wireless signal is non Wi Fi in response to determining that none of the plurality of combinations of component wireless signals has been classified as Wi Fi signals.

The controller is a hardware device and or software module that provide network managements which include but are not limited to controlling planning allocating deploying coordinating and monitoring the resources of a network network planning frequency allocation predetermined traffic routing to support load balancing cryptographic key distribution authorization configuration management fault management security management performance management bandwidth management route analytics and accounting management etc. In some embodiments the controller is an optional component in the digital network environment .

Moreover assuming that a number of access points such as access point are interconnected with the network controller . Each access point may be interconnected with zero or more client devices via either a wired interface or a wireless interface. In this example for illustration purposes only assuming that the client is associated with the access point via a wireless link. An access point generally refers to a network device that allows wireless clients to connect to a wired network. Access points usually connect to a controller via a wired network or can be a part of a controller in itself. For example the access point is connected to the controller via an optional L2 L3 network B.

Wired interfaces typically include IEEE 802.3 Ethernet interfaces used for wired connections to other network devices such as switches or to a controller. Wireless interfaces may be WiMAX 3G 4G and or IEEE 802.11 wireless interfaces. In some embodiments controllers and APs may operate under control of operating systems with purpose built programs providing host controller and access point functionality.

Furthermore the controller can be connected to the router through zero or more hops in a layer 3 or layer 2 network such as L2 L3 Network A . The router can forward traffic to and receive traffic from the Internet . The router generally is a network device that forwards data packets between different networks and thus creating an overlay internetwork. A router is typically connected to two or more data lines from different networks. When a data packet comes in one of the data lines the router reads the address information in the packet to determine its destination. Then using information in its routing table or routing policy the router directs the packet to the next different network. A data packet is typically forwarded from one router to another router through the Internet until the packet gets to its destination.

The gateway is a network device that passes network traffic from local subnet to devices on other subnets. In some embodiments the gateway may be connected to a controller or be a part of the controller depending on the configuration of the controller . In some embodiments the gateway is an optional component in the digital network environment .

Web servers and are hardware devices and or software modules that facilitate delivery of web content that can be accessed through the Internet . For example the web server A may be assigned an IP address of 1.1.1.1 and used to host a first Internet website e.g. www.yahoo.com the web server B may be assigned an IP address of 2.2.2.2 and used to host a second Internet website e.g. www.google.com and the web server C may be assigned an IP address of 3.3.3.3 and used to host a third Internet website e.g. www.facebook.com .

The client may be a computing device that includes a memory and a processor for example a laptop computer a desktop computer a tablet computer a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile email device a portable game player a portable music player a reader device a television with one or more processors embedded therein or coupled thereto or other electronic device capable of accessing a network. Although only one client is illustrated in a plurality of clients can be included in .

According to embodiments of the present disclosure network services provided by the network device solely or in combination with other wireless network devices include but are not limited to an Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.1x authentication to an internal and or external Remote Authentication Dial In User Service RADIUS server an MAC authentication to an internal and or external RADIUS server a built in Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP service to assign wireless client devices IP addresses an internal secured management interface Layer 3 forwarding Network Address Translation NAT service between the wireless network and a wired network coupled to the network device an internal and or external captive portal an external management system for managing the network devices in the wireless network etc. In some embodiments the network device or system may serve as a node in a distributed or a cloud computing environment.

In some embodiments the network device includes a network interface capable of communicating to a wired network a processor a memory and a storage device . The components of the network device are communicatively coupled to each other.

The network interface can be any communication interface which includes but is not limited to a modem token ring interface Ethernet interface wireless IEEE 802.11 interface e.g. IEEE 802.11n IEEE 802.11ac etc. cellular wireless interface satellite transmission interface or any other interface for coupling network devices. In some embodiments the network interface may be software defined and programmable for example via an Application Programming Interface API and thus allowing for remote control of the network device .

The processor includes an arithmetic logic unit a microprocessor a general purpose controller or some other processor array to perform computations and provide electronic display signals to a display device. Processor processes data signals and may include various computing architectures including a complex instruction set computer CISC architecture a reduced instruction set computer RISC architecture or an architecture implementing a combination of instruction sets. Although includes a single processor multiple processors may be included. Other processors operating systems sensors displays and physical configurations are possible. In some embodiments the processor includes a networking processor core that is capable of processing network data traffic.

The memory stores instructions and or data that may be executed by the processor . The instructions and or data may include code for performing the techniques described herein. The memory may be a dynamic random access memory DRAM device a static random access memory SRAM device flash memory or some other memory device. In some embodiments the memory also includes a non volatile memory or similar permanent storage device and media including a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a CD ROM device a DVD ROM device a DVD RAM device a DVD RW device a flash memory device or some other mass storage device for storing information on a more permanent basis.

In some embodiments the memory stores a Wi Fi signature detection application . The Wi Fi signature detection application can be the code and routines that when executed by processor cause the network device to implement detecting and classifying Wi Fi signatures from FFT samples. In some embodiments a node can be an access point . In some other embodiments a node can be a controller a router a gateway a switch or any other network device. In some embodiments the Wi Fi signature detection application can be located in an access point . In some other embodiments the Wi Fi signature detection application can be located in a controller a router a gateway a switch or any other network device. In some embodiments the Wi Fi signature detection application can be implemented using hardware including a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA or an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC. In some other embodiments the Wi Fi signature detection application can be implemented using a combination of hardware and software. In some embodiments the Wi Fi signature detection application may be stored in a combination of the network devices or in one of the network devices. The Wi Fi signature detection application is described below in more detail with reference to .

The storage device can be a non transitory memory that stores data for providing the functionality described herein. The storage device may be a dynamic random access memory DRAM device a static random access memory SRAM device flash memory or some other memory devices. In some embodiments the storage device also includes a non volatile memory or similar permanent storage device and media including a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a CD ROM device a DVD ROM device a DVD RAM device a DVD RW device a flash memory device or some other mass storage device for storing information on a more permanent basis.

The Wi Fi signature detection application can be software including routines for detecting and classifying Wi Fi signals from Fourier transform samples based on certain criteria. In some embodiments the Wi Fi signature detection application can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described herein. In some other embodiments the Wi Fi signature detection application can be stored in the memory and can be accessible and executable by the processor .

A Fourier transform converts time or space to frequency and vice versa. A Fast Fourier Transform or FFT is a kind of Fourier transform method for computing the frequency spectrum of a time varying input signal. This line chart shows the power level of a signal on the channels or frequencies monitored by a spectrum monitor radio. Table 1 below illustrates an example FFT signal strength levels corresponding to different frequency bins.

The Wi Fi signature detection application determines whether a Fourier transform sample corresponds to a Wi Fi signal based on certain criteria. In some embodiments the Wi Fi signature detection application collects and divides Fourier transform samples such as FFT samples into frequency block and determines the bandwidth for the FFT sample. If the Wi Fi signature detection application determines that the sample does not correspond to a narrowband signal then it calculates channel utilization based on a determination that the FFT sample corresponds to a Wi Fi signal. If the Wi Fi signature detection application determines that the FFT sample corresponds to a narrowband signal then it determines that the FFT sample corresponds to a Wi Fi signal based on certain criteria.

Various modules included in the Wi Fi signature detection application determines that the FFT sample corresponds to a Wi Fi signal based on various criteria. Examples of these various criteria are described in the descriptions of the slope calculation module the sub peak estimation module the classification module the characteristic matching module and the combination module .

The communication module can be software including routines for handling communications between the Wi Fi signature detection application and other components in the digital computing environment . In some embodiments the communication module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described herein. In some other embodiments the communication module can be stored in the memory of the Wi Fi signature detection application and can be accessible and executable by the processor .

In some embodiments the communication module may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the Wi Fi signature detection application such as the network interface the storage etc.

In some embodiments the communication module sends and receives data to and from one or more of a client an access point and other network devices via the network interface in the event of distributed functionalities. In some embodiments the communication module handles communications between components of the Wi Fi signature detection application . In some embodiments the communication module receives data from other components of the Wi Fi signature detection application and stores the data in the storage device .

The band determination module can be software including routines for determining whether an FFT sample corresponds to a Wi Fi signal based on certain criteria. In some embodiments the band determination module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described herein. In some other embodiments the band determination module can be stored in the memory of the Wi Fi signature detection application and can be accessible and executable by the processor .

In some embodiments the band determination module collects and divides FFT samples into frequency block and determines the bandwidth for the FFT sample.

The slope calculation module can be software including routines for determining whether the FFT sample corresponds to a Wi Fi signal based at least on the slope values. In some embodiments the slope calculation module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described herein. In some other embodiments the slope calculation module can be stored in the memory of the Wi Fi signature detection application and can be accessible and executable by the processor .

In some embodiments slope calculation module determines whether the Fourier transform sample corresponds to a Wi Fi signal based on the slope values. The slope calculation module identifies a peak frequency bin for an FFT sample from a plurality of frequency bins corresponding to signal strength for a signal detected on a channel at a particular time. In some embodiments the peak frequency bin corresponds to a peak in signal strength. For instance in the example illustrated in Table 2 the peak frequency bin is frequency bin No. 7 which corresponds to a signal strength level of 50 dBm. The slope calculation module then determines a decrease in signal strength between a the first signal strength corresponding to the first bin and b a second signal strength corresponding to a second bin in the plurality of bins.

Specifically in some embodiments the slope calculation module can compute a set of slope values between the signal strength corresponding to the peak frequency bin and the signal strength for each of a plurality of frequency bins within a certain range from the peak frequency bin. For example in the example illustrated in Table 2 the slope calculation module may calculate a slope value based on signal strength levels corresponding to each of i bins and ii bins and iii bins and iv bins and v bins and etc. Accordingly the resulting slope values are i ii iii iv v etc. The slope calculation module then compares each of the slope values to a corresponding threshold value that is dependent on the number of the frequency bins between the peak frequency bin and the frequency bin corresponding to that slope. For example the set of threshold values corresponding to i bins and ii bins and iii bins and iv bins and v bins and may be i ii iii iv v etc. The slope calculation module then determines a number of satisfying slope values from the set of slope values. In some embodiments the satisfying slope values meet their corresponding thresholds for example the slope values corresponding to iii bins and i.e. a slope value of 30 and v bins and i.e. a slope value of 25 meet their corresponding threshold values i.e. for bins and and for bins and . Finally the slope calculation module determines whether the FFT sample corresponds to a Wi Fi signal based at least on the number of satisfying slope values. Here for example because only 2 out of 5 slope values meet the threshold the slope calculation module may determine that the FFT sample does not correspond to a Wi Fi signal but rather a narrow band interference signal.

In some embodiments the slope calculation module also determines a burst duration for the signal. In such embodiments determining whether the FFT sample corresponds to a Wi Fi signal may also be based on the burst duration exceeding a predetermined threshold value.

In some embodiments the slope calculation module also computes an average slope value of the slope values corresponding to the frequency bins preceding the peak frequency bin. In such embodiments determining whether the FFT sample corresponds to a Wi Fi signal is also based on the average slope value. For example in Table 1 the average slope value of the slope values corresponding to frequency bins to that are preceding the peak frequency bin is 30 28 25 20 15 5 23.6.

In some embodiments the slope calculation module also computes an average slope value of the slope values corresponding to the frequency bins subsequent to the peak frequency bin. In such embodiments determining whether the FFT sample corresponds to a Wi Fi signal is also based on the average slope value. For example in Table 1 the average slope value of the slope values corresponding to frequency bins to that are subsequent to the peak frequency bin is 20 25 30 15 25 5 23.

In some embodiments the slope calculation module also computes a first average slope value of the slope values corresponding to the frequency bins preceding the peak frequency bin. The slope calculation module further computes a second average slope value of the slope values corresponding to the frequency bins subsequent to the peak frequency bin and computes a third average slope value based on the first average slope value and the second average slope value. In such embodiments determining whether the FFT sample corresponds to a Wi Fi signal is also based on the third average slope value for example 23.6 23 2 23.3.

The sub peak bin estimation module can be software including routines for determining a signal type for the signal based on the number of sub peak frequency bins within the particular number of frequency bins from the peak frequency bin. In some embodiments the sub peak bin estimation module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described herein. In some other embodiments the sub peak bin estimation module can be stored in the memory of the Wi Fi signature detection application and can be accessible and executable by the processor .

In some embodiments the sub peak bin estimation module determines a signal type for the signal based on the number of sub peak frequency bins within the particular number of frequency bins from the peak frequency bin. In some embodiments the sub peak bin estimation module identifies a peak frequency bin from a plurality of frequency bins for an FFT sample corresponding to signal strength for a signal detected within a frequency channel at a particular time. In some embodiments the peak frequency bin corresponds to a peak in the signal strength for the signal. The sub peak bin estimation module then determines a number of sub peak frequency bins within a particular number of frequency bins from the peak frequency bin.

In some embodiments the sub peak frequency bin is any frequency bin corresponding to a signal strength that is a lower than the peak signal strength b higher than at least the signal strength for n consecutive frequency bins in the plurality of frequency bins preceding the particular bin and c higher than at least the signal strength for m consecutive frequency bins in the plurality of frequency bins subsequent to the particular bin. In the example illustrated in Table 1 frequency bin corresponds to a sub peak because the signal strength level 65 dBm is a lower than the peak signal strength 50 dBm b higher than at least 3 consecutive frequency bins in the plurality of frequency bins preceding the particular bin and c higher than at least the signal strength for 3 consecutive frequency bins in the plurality of frequency bins subsequent to the particular bin.

Finally the sub peak bin estimation module determines a signal type for the signal based at least on the number of sub peak frequency bins within the particular number of frequency bins from the peak frequency bin. For example the FFT sample illustrated in Table 1 may be classified as a non Wi Fi signal because there is only 1 sub peak frequency bin. On the other hand according to some embodiments if at least two sub peak bins are identified preceding the peak bin and at least two sub peak bins are identified subsequent to the peak bin the corresponding FFT sample will be classified as a Wi Fi signal.

In some embodiments the sub peak bin estimation module also determines a burst duration for the signal. In such embodiments determining the signal type for the signal is also based on the burst duration. In some embodiments the signal type includes Wi Fi signals as well as non Wi Fi signals.

In some embodiments determining the number of sub peak frequency bins also includes identifying a plurality of first frequency bins within the particular number of frequency bins from the peak frequency bin determining a rate of change between the signal strength corresponding to one of the plurality of first frequency bins and the signal strength corresponding to each of the n frequency bins immediately preceding the one of the first frequency bins determining whether the rate of change is positive and determining that the one of the first frequency bins is a sub peak bin in response to determining that the rate of change is positive.

In other embodiments determining the number of sub peak frequency bins also includes identifying a plurality of first frequency bins within the particular number of frequency bins from the peak frequency bin determining a number of rates of change between the signal strength corresponding to each of the plurality of first frequency bins and the signal strength corresponding to the peak frequency bin determining a satisfying rate of change from the number of rates of change the satisfying rate of change being less than any rates of change in the number of rages of change computed between at least one first frequency bin and the peak frequency bin wherein the at least one first frequency bin is between the first frequency bin corresponding to the satisfying rate of change and the peak bin and determining that the first frequency bin corresponding to the satisfying rate of change is a sub peak frequency bin.

The burst measurement module can be software including routines for estimating a duration of the wireless signal burst that is longer than a first time period. In some embodiments the burst measurement module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described herein. In some other embodiments the burst measurement module can be stored in the memory of the Wi Fi signature detection application and can be accessible and executable by the processor .

In some embodiments the burst measurement module estimates a duration of the wireless signal burst. In some embodiments the burst measurement module first obtains a first plurality of samples corresponding to a first set of wireless signals received in a first time period from a first source. In some embodiments the first set of wireless signals corresponds to a portion of a wireless signal burst from the first source. In some embodiments the burst measurement module then obtains a second plurality of samples corresponding to a second set of wireless signals received in a second time period from a second source. Responsive to determining that the second set of wireless signals has a higher signal strength than the first set of wireless signals the burst measurement module then determines that the first set of wireless signals corresponding to a portion of a wireless signal burst from the first source. Finally the burst measurement module then estimates a duration of the wireless signal burst that is longer than the first time period.

In some embodiments determining that the second set of wireless signals has a higher signal strength than the first set of wireless signals includes computing a first average signal strength for the first set of wireless signals computing a second average signal strength for the second set of wireless signals and comparing the first average signal strength and the second average signal strength.

The classification module can be software including routines for classifying Wi Fi signals. In some embodiments the classification module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described herein. In some other embodiments the classification module can be stored in the memory of the Wi Fi signature detection application and can be accessible and executable by the processor .

In some embodiments the classification module determines that an FFT sample corresponds to a Wi Fi signal based on analysis of an adjacent channel. In some embodiments the classification module determines a usage of a first radio frequency channel related to Wi Fi wireless signals. In some embodiments the classification module then detects a wireless signal on a second radio frequency channel adjacent to the first radio frequency channel. In some embodiments the wireless signal is near an edge of the second radio frequency channel shared with the first radio frequency channel. In some embodiments the classification module then determines that wireless signal detected on the second radio frequency channel corresponds to Wi Fi wireless signals based at least on the usage of the first radio frequency channel related to Wi Fi wireless signals.

In some embodiments determining that wireless signal detected on the second radio frequency channel corresponds to Wi Fi wireless signals includes determining whether the usage of the first radio frequency channel exceeds a particular threshold and determining that wireless signal detected on the second radio frequency channel corresponds to Wi Fi wireless signals in response to determining that the usage of the first radio frequency channel exceeds a particular threshold.

The characteristic matching module can be software including routines for classifying Wi Fi signals based on characteristic matching. In some embodiments the characteristic matching module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described herein. In some other embodiments the characteristic matching module can be stored in the memory of the Wi Fi signature detection application and can be accessible and executable by the processor .

In some embodiments the characteristic matching module determines that the FFT sample corresponds to a Wi Fi signal based characteristic matching. In some embodiments the characteristic matching module detects a first wireless signal. In some embodiments the characteristic matching module then determines that at least a portion of the characteristics associated with the first wireless signal matches that of a second wireless signal that was previously classified as a Wi Fi signal. Finally the characteristic matching module classifies the first wireless signal as a Wi Fi signal based at least on the determination that at least a portion of the characteristics associated with the first wireless signal matches the second wireless signal.

In some embodiments the portion of characteristics that matches that of the second wireless signal includes a frequency bin in which a peak signal strength was detected. In some embodiments the portion of characteristics that matches that of the second wireless signal includes a highest signal strength. In some embodiments the portion of characteristics that matches that of the second wireless signal includes a frequency bin in which a peak signal strength was detected and a highest signal strength.

The combination module can be software including routines for classifying Wi Fi signals. In some embodiments the combination module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described herein. In some other embodiments the combination module can be stored in the memory of the Wi Fi signature detection application and can be accessible and executable by the processor .

In some embodiments the combination module detects a first wireless signal corresponding to a frequency band. In some embodiments the combination module then identifies different subsections of the frequency band and corresponding component wireless signals in the different subsections. In some embodiments the component wireless signals form the first wireless signal. In some embodiments the combination module then selects a plurality of combinations of component wireless signals using the different subsections and classifies the plurality of combinations of component wireless signals as Wi Fi signals or non Wi Fi signals. Finally the combination module determines that the first wireless signal is non Wi Fi in response to determining that none of the plurality of combinations of component wireless signals has been classified as Wi Fi.

If it is determined that the FFT sample does not correspond to a narrowband signal No then channel utilization is calculated based on a determination that the FFT sample corresponds to a Wi Fi signal one or more operations indicated by block . If it is determined that the sample corresponds to a narrowband signal Yes a determination whether the FFT sample corresponds to a Wi Fi signal is made based on certain criteria one or more operations indicated by block . illustrates example processes for determining whether the FFT sample corresponds to a Wi Fi signal based on various criteria. More details describing this example of process will be described with regard to the descriptions of .

In some embodiments a burst duration for the signal is determined one or more operations indicated by block . In such embodiments determining whether the FFT sample corresponds to a Wi Fi signal is also based on the burst duration.

In some embodiments a burst duration for the signal is also determined one or more operations indicated by block . In such embodiments determining the signal type for the signal is also based on the burst duration. In some embodiments the signal type includes Wi Fi signals as well as non Wi Fi signals.

A previously mentioned in some embodiments the sub peak frequency bin is any frequency bin corresponding to a signal strengths that is a lower than the first signal strength b higher than at least the signal strength for n consecutive frequency bins in the plurality of frequency bins preceding the particular bin and c higher than at least the signal strength for m consecutive frequency bins in the plurality of frequency bins subsequent to the particular bin.

Determining a number of sub peak bins may be performed in various ways. illustrate an example process for determining a number of sub peak bins according to embodiments of the present disclosure.

In some embodiments determining that the second set of wireless signals have a higher signal strength than the first set of wireless signals includes computing a first average signal strength for the first set of wireless signals computing a second average signal strength for the second set of wireless signals and comparing the first average signal strength and the second average signal strength.

The present disclosure may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present disclosure may be realized in a centralized fashion in one computer system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computer systems coupled to a network. A typical combination of hardware and software may be an access point with a computer program that when being loaded and executed controls the device such that it carries out the methods described herein.

The present disclosure also may be embedded in non transitory fashion in a computer readable storage medium e.g. a programmable circuit a semiconductor memory such as a volatile memory such as random access memory RAM or non volatile memory such as read only memory power backed RAM flash memory phase change memory or the like a hard disk drive an optical disc drive or any connector for receiving a portable memory device such as a Universal Serial Bus USB flash drive which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods. Computer program in the present context means any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation b reproduction in a different material form.

As used herein digital device generally includes a device that is adapted to transmit and or receive signaling and to process information within such signaling such as a station e.g. any data processing equipment such as a computer cellular phone personal digital assistant tablet devices etc. an access point data transfer devices such as network switches routers controllers etc. or the like.

As used herein access point AP generally refers to receiving points for any known or convenient wireless access technology which may later become known. Specifically the term AP is not intended to be limited to IEEE 802.11 based APs. APs generally function as an electronic device that is adapted to allow wireless devices to connect to a wired network via various communications standards.

As used herein the term interconnect or used descriptively as interconnected is generally defined as a communication pathway established over an information carrying medium. The interconnect may be a wired interconnect wherein the medium is a physical medium e.g. electrical wire optical fiber cable bus traces etc. a wireless interconnect e.g. air in combination with wireless signaling technology or a combination of these technologies.

As used herein information is generally defined as data address control management e.g. statistics or any combination thereof. For transmission information may be transmitted as a message namely a collection of bits in a predetermined format. One type of message namely a wireless message includes a header and payload data having a predetermined number of bits of information. The wireless message may be placed in a format as one or more packets frames or cells.

As used herein wireless local area network WLAN generally refers to a communications network links two or more devices using some wireless distribution method for example spread spectrum or orthogonal frequency division multiplexing radio and usually providing a connection through an access point to the Internet and thus providing users with the mobility to move around within a local coverage area and still stay connected to the network.

As used herein the term mechanism generally refers to a component of a system or device to serve one or more functions including but not limited to software components electronic components electrical components mechanical components electro mechanical components etc.

As used herein the term embodiment generally refers an embodiment that serves to illustrate by way of example but not limitation.

Some portions of the detailed descriptions are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the foregoing discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms including processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers.

The particular naming and division of the modules routines features attributes methodologies and other aspects are not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the specification or its features may have different names divisions and or formats. Furthermore as will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the relevant art the modules routines features attributes methodologies and other aspects of the disclosure can be implemented as software hardware firmware or any combination of the three. Also wherever a component an example of which is a module of the specification is implemented as software the component can be implemented as a standalone program as part of a larger program as a plurality of separate programs as a statically or dynamically linked library as a kernel loadable module as a device driver and or in every and any other way known now or in the future to those of ordinary skill in the art of computer programming.

It will be appreciated to those skilled in the art that the preceding examples and embodiments are example and not limiting to the scope of the present disclosure. It is intended that all permutations enhancements equivalents and improvements thereto that are apparent to those skilled in the art upon a reading of the specification and a study of the drawings are included within the true spirit and scope of the present disclosure. It is therefore intended that the following appended claims include all such modifications permutations and equivalents as fall within the true spirit and scope of the present disclosure.

While the present disclosure has been described in terms of various embodiments the present disclosure should not be limited to only those embodiments described but can be practiced with modification and alteration within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Likewise where a reference to a standard is made in the present disclosure the reference is generally made to the current version of the standard as applicable to the disclosed technology area. However the described embodiments may be practiced under subsequent development of the standard within the spirit and scope of the description and appended claims. The description is thus to be regarded as illustrative rather than limiting.

