---

title: Systems and methods for providing mobility aspects to applications in the cloud
abstract: An exemplary system according to the present disclosure comprises at least one mobility networking module implemented in at least one lower tier radiolet. The mobility network module performs one or more traffic data plane functions. The exemplary system further comprises at least one mobility application module implemented in at least one upper tier radiolet. The mobility application module performs one or more application data plane functions. The exemplary system further comprises at least one mobility cloud module implemented in the at least one lower tier radiolet and the at least one upper tier radiolet. The mobility cloud module performs computing execution functions of a cloud session.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09635580&OS=09635580&RS=09635580
owner: Alef Mobitech Inc.
number: 09635580
owner_city: Bernardsville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160525
---
The present disclosure relates generally to mobile cloud computing and providing application mobility and mobility to the cloud and more particularly to enhancing mobile cloud based applications delivered over mobile broadband networks. The present disclosure also related to enabling mobile apps to work in tandem with mobility networks and to providing mobility aspects to applications in the cloud.

Mobile Internet is a technology which is predicted to far surpass its fixed Internet counterpart. Fundamentally the Mobile Internet has become a large if not the largest global platform for advertising collaboration commerce communications entertainment infotainment productivity social networking etc. on the go. A number of problems and challenges exist in the mobile Internet dimension including for example without limitation the following. There is a lack of sustained engagement given the smart device revolution there is an app for everything and designing the next successful app is highly desirable. Furthermore subscriber expectations for a desktop internet experience over the mobile Internet is dramatically impacting engagement. There are high costs and low revenue both IT costs and customer related acquisition and retention costs are increasing in a competitive app provider market place. Multi media features are par for the course yet the return on investment of rolling out premium features is very low. Traffic volumes corresponding to rich media features are exponentially higher compared to text based features of yesteryears but corresponding improvements in revenue are incremental.

Also there is a lack of revenue generating services from a mobile network operator perspective what used to be a multi services offering with voice messaging and premium messaging services data applications like blackberry email etc. has dwindled down rapidly to a data bandwidth service with the only differentiation in the market being pricing. However given the explosion in the number of over the top applications that are media rich and bandwidth hogs traffic growth has been significant requiring operators to make substantial investments. Simultaneously given the near absence of differentiation customer acquisition costs have sky rocketed for instance in developed nations and markets subscriber acquisition costs are tied to device subsidies which have skyrocketed . Despite all these investments and subsidies networks continue to be choked leading to poor customer engagement.

While access to the Internet through mobile broadband systems has expanded significantly and application choices have grown exponentially rich immersive and interactive solutions have not been achieved leading to low engagement high churn and lost revenue. Complexities in app flow are at the heart of the problem and can be categorized in to a sequence of chained problems that are unique to mobility networks comprising distributed first mile problem Mobile Middle Mile problem and wireless last mile problem. In essence the cloud lacks mobility leading to mobile networks treating applications as a sequence of packets and conversely applications treating mobile networks as black boxes.

The fundamental end to end complexities noted above can lead to the network and application not working in tandem. Application providers design and architect their delivery solutions by treating the network as a black box while network providers treat applications as a sequence of packets. A joint solution is missing from the market today.

In connection with the foregoing systems and methods are needed for providing application mobility that can create new revenue streams through differentiated offerings while simultaneously reducing costs and improving customer engagement. Also systems and methods are needed that can simplify the first mile eliminate the Mobile Middle Mile and unclog the wireless last mile.

The present disclosure relates to systems and methods of providing mobility to the cloud comprising at least one mobility networking module implemented in at least one lower tier radiolet and comprising at least one processor executing computer readable instructions that cause the at least one mobility network module to perform one or more traffic data plane functions. The present disclosure further comprises at least one mobility application module implemented in at least one upper tier radiolet and comprising at least one processor executing computer readable instructions that cause the at least one mobility network module to perform one or more application data plane functions. The present disclosure further comprises at least one mobility cloud module implemented in the at least one lower tier radiolet and the at least one upper tier radiolet and comprising at least one processor executing computer readable instructions that cause the at least one mobility cloud module to perform computing execution functions of a cloud session.

The following definitions and descriptions are provided and may be useful to better understand the concepts described in this disclosure 

 radiolet refers to any type of server or servers including those configured for use in connection with mobile data networks such as for example any application servers communications servers proxy servers or any other suitably configured servers. The server or servers may comprise any type of computer software and computer hardware and include one or more processors for executing computer readable instructions. In an exemplary embodiment a radiolet may refer to a temporary and partial instance of a cloud e.g. the Internet embodied and provide via one or more servers located at a radio edge e.g. outer limits of radio processing functions within a mobile data network that is configured to be application aware and to provide one or more application services.

 computer or computer hardware refers to any electronic device or devices including those capable of being utilized in connection with a mobile data system such as for example any device capable of receiving transmitting processing and or using data and information. A computer or computer hardware may comprise one or more of the following a server a processor a microprocessor a personal computer such as for example a laptop computer a tablet a palm PC a desktop or a workstation computer a network server a mainframe an electronic wired or wireless device such as for example a telephone a cellular telephone a personal digital assistant or a smart phone an interactive television such as for example a television adapted to be connected to the Internet or an electronic device adapted for use with a television an electronic pager or any other computing and or communication device whether located in a single or across multiple locations.

 network refers to any type of network or networks including those capable of being utilized in connection with a mobile data system such as for example any public and or private networks including for instance the Internet an intranet an extranet or any wired or wireless network s or combinations thereof.

 data refers to any type of facts figures statistics details images multi media content quantities characters symbols or any other type of information and or communication including those capable of being utilized in connection with a mobile data network such as for example any Internet content data or Internet application data that may be received processed stored and or transmitted by a computer in the form of electrical signals and recorded on magnetic optical and or mechanical recording media.

 datacenter refers to one or more networked computer servers configured for receiving processing storing and distributing large amounts of data. For purposes of the present disclosure datacenters may also be configured to operate within mobile data networks such as for example an Internet cloud based datacenter.

 application refers to a collection of one or more computer readable instructions that when executed carry out one or more specific operations. In the context of the present disclosure an application may be embodied as software executing on one or more computers and configured to perform operations for use in connection with mobile data networks although the present disclosure is not limited thereto. For purposes of the present disclosure an application may be configured for use in conjunction with any operating system platform such as for example and without limitation Windows Android and Apple .

Applications or apps are the secret sauce of the mobile Internet and often serve as springs of creativity for providers to engage in an immersive intelligent and interactive digital dialog. Often creativity leads to complexity and apps have come a long way from their desktop browser based application counterparts. Features of an exemplary mobile commerce application comprise without limitation search that is contextual federated and location based catalogs that are personalized with related products and with videos instead of images payments with support for multiple options and 3party billing cart management with interactivity intelligent order management and promotions reviews that are contextual with do it yourself videos input from social networks with customer uploads and customer service chat feedback calling and social media features. Hyper competitive mobile commerce markets aim to design apps that achieve the following goal to make the buying experience more delightful accessible aspirational gratifying and meaningful. In doing so mobile commerce entities can maintain pricing power and even charge a premium instead of usual marketing barrage of constant discounts promotions and margins squeezing offers. The features above are not limited to mobile commerce apps. For example mobile apps may have more features and conversely may not include all of the above illustrated features.

In one embodiment the present disclosure solves the problems described above through an adaptive overlay architecture that does not require any upgrades to mobile networks or app datacenters. In addition to a technology platform the present disclosure comprises full stack solutions that are custom designed to address the above problems with a view towards dramatically improving the responsiveness relevance and richness of the mobile Internet by introducing mobility principles in to the cloud that allows the network and applications to work in tandem. From a subscriber perspective this leads to a more immersive intelligent and interactive mobile Internet.

Complexities in the end to end app flow cannot be resolved by staying entirely outside the mobile operator network. Conversely a purely operator centric solution to an app provider problem will not work without an engagement with app providers. In particular responsive rich media and relevant apps are the domain of app providers. Given the maturity of mobile networks and app datacenters a solution that requires a forklift of either the network or an app datacenter is not a viable market option. Hence the present disclosure can create an overlay solution that does not require any upgrades to either mobile networks or the app datacenters.

The present disclosure provides solutions that work across the board to create an immersive intelligent and interactive engagements regardless of access network type or application type and can gain wider applicability.

Turning now to illustrates an exemplary end to end application flow of a mobile device accessing an application in a datacenter through a mobile communications network . Application cloud datacenter treats the mobile network as a black box and mobile network treats the application cloud datacenter as a sequence of bytes. The complex first mile comprises the application cloud datacenter . The application cloud datacenter can comprise a distribution layer comprising an enterprise campus core and application delivery appliances and a layer 2 or 3 access layer comprising web and front end servers application servers databases and mainframes . The distribution layer and the layer 2 or 3 access layer can communicate via one or more networks. The long middle mile can comprise the mobile network . The mobile network can comprise a gateway GPRS support node GGSN server a public land mobile network PLMN comprising a service network comprising servers a core network a public switched telephone network integrated services digital network PSTN ISDN a radio access network RAN comprising radio network controllers RNC and cell stations . The service network the core network and the RAN can communicate via one or more networks. The clogged last mile can comprise the wireless link between a cell station and various mobile stations .

Turning now to illustrates mobile request and response pathways through an exemplary mobile communications network . The complex first mile comprises an application cloud comprising infrastructure for example as described above in third party legacy front end applications and third party datacenters . The long middle mile comprises a central switching site a regional switching site an Internet point of presence POP a local switching site and an external transport network . The clogged last mile comprises base station devices e.g. browsers and customers .

A request travels via request pathway from the clogged last mile through the mobility network via local switching site regional switching site central switching site and Internet POP and through the complex first mile to infrastructure . A response travels via response pathway from infrastructure through the complex first mile through the mobility network via Internet POP central switching site regional switching site and local switching site and through the clogged last mile to the customer .

As illustrated for example in the end to end flow comprises a combination of mobile carrier networks cloud front end systems as well as a complex web of back end infrastructure comprising multiple virtual instances of application servers databases web servers and 3party servers. Distributed applications can be broken down into tens or hundreds of components that are each owned operated and potentially managed by different entities. Virtualization adds another layer of complexity which is layered on top of the distributed applications. Datacenters often comprise multiple racks of servers with a complex grove of hypervisors executing different pieces of application logic and accessing storage across multiple networks and locations.

The path above the mobile carrier network e.g. in in is often referred to as the distributed first mile. The complexities in the distributed first mile can comprise inefficiency and lack of responsive from the end user perspective. Also it can be a source of unpredictability in end user experience from an application provider perspective. The mobile carrier network described in more detail below can be a significant source of unpredictability.

Of particular interest in the end to end flow described above is the traversal of packets through the mobile network. Mobile networks have been built as access network to the Internet and in particular the central design principle of these networks is to enable mobility e.g. handovers or handoffs between various network elements as the user migrates. A centralized design forces choke points in the network. Subsequently after the design and standardization of these networks operator deployments can be optimized for cost per bit from an operating expense perspective rather than from a user experience perspective. This combined reality has led to what is known as the Mobile Middle Mile problem for example as illustrated in .

For example illustrated in is a microcosm of a data packet s traversal through the mobile operator network. Essentially every packet through the access network goes through a sequence of switching locations that are geographically distributed and often not connected at the shortest distance but instead with large routed distances . For example multiple hundreds of cell sites can be aggregated at a local switching site and multiple local switching sites can be aggregated at a regional switching site. Every operator can have a few central switching sites and peer with the Internet at very few Internet POPS.

This hierarchical architecture can be significant source of unpredictability and inefficiency. This overall route between the local switching site and the Internet POP is referred to as the Mobile Middle Mile . This path is unique to mobile networks and is central to the design and standards across multiple generations of networks. Moreover these networks can be optimized for packet processing and delivery rather than application awareness and datacenter efficiency. This clash in design philosophy combined with the natural choke points in the architecture can lead to high costs and unpredictability in application performance and user responsiveness.

Embedded in a packet s traversal through an operator s wireless network is the wireless last mile or the first mile from the user s perspective . Fundamentally the wireless last mile is different from fixed line networks for example without limitation 1 the last mile of wireless networks is shared across users devices whereas the last mile connectivity is often dedicated in a fixed line network 2 the last mile spectrum is a precious resource which often requires licensing and availability when an operator needs it and is willing to spend which is often dependent on regulatory constraints regardless of geography and 3 fixed line networks especially fiber based networks are not as bandwidth challenged as wireless networks. Given these unique constraints unclogging the wireless last mile is an important aspect of an end to end approach to improving user engagement.

For example as illustrated in the path taken by data packets above the mobile operator network is often referred to as the complex first mile. Apps are often considered to be customized browsers with extra software modules for a specific site however such an explanation misses the inherent complexities of apps. Apps are like systems rather than websites which were digital destinations. Systems can comprise components that are connected. These components are logically related and can change each other. For example a typical app provider has an ecosystem of objects some of which are third party objects that can be aggregated in multiple ways e.g. depending on the user location device etc. in order to deliver a system of objects that are logically related.

The first mile is not a path from a destination to a border gateway protocol BGP router at a peering location e.g. where the operator peers but instead is a complex set of paths and interactions between components of systems . The present disclosure can simplify the first mile through a systems approach by serving as an intermediary component of various systems can overlay a system and distributed network of software instances and comprises a design with flexibility and can adapt to change.

The path between the local switching office or local mobile telephone switching office MTSO and the peering location which is managed by the mobile network operator is referred to as the Mobile Middle Mile . This is a collection of locations with each location consisting of a complex set of local area networks LAN with each LAN being decomposed in to multiple virtual LANS VLANS . The Mobile Middle Mile problem is self contained within an operator network. While functionality within the Mobile Middle Mile cannot be eliminated certain functions within the Mobile Middle Mile are also performed in the distributed first mile this overlap can be eliminated either in the first mile or middle mile certain paths can be eliminated in the middle mile for traffic packets. Many of the functions that are performed within the Mobile Middle Mile are also performed in the first mile.

Differences between the mobile last mile and fixed network last miles include for example without limitation mobile last mile is shared but fixed last mile is not unclogging mobile last mile is applicable regardless of narrowband or broadband systems and the broader the band the greater the bang for the buck. The present disclosure can bring algorithmic improvements to mobile last mile. These algorithms can work in tandem with the rest of the solution infrastructure. In particular efficacy of mobile last mile algorithms applied at the radio edge can be better than when applied at the packet core. Improving the delivery time for one app instance for one user does not slow down anybody else and can improve the system efficiency overall. Connectivity computing and curation do not co exist in the mobile Internet and as the present disclosure solves the problem comprehensively.

The present disclosure is a first of its kind combination of software defined mobility networking and mobile app delivery framework with the potential to be delivered as a managed overlay service at the radio edge. One benefit of this solution can be the enablement of premium over the top OTT consumer and enterprise applications delivered with rich experience for mobile users as bundled services through the operator while simultaneously reducing network and application delivery costs. These solutions can be delivered without any upgrades to the network or application datacenters resulting in significant reduction in costs while simultaneously improving revenue and reducing churn for the value chain.

Currently operators and the over the top ecosystem are working independent of each other and there is significant friction in the value chain. This combination of working with mobile network operators as well as OTT application providers creates much needed bridges between islands of providers thereby creating a win win win mobile solutions marketplace and a smarter value chain. There is high consumer appetite for rich media OTT apps. Therefore collaborating directly with the OTT ecosystem can improve the mobile network system. In addition to bringing a non disruptive technology solution to the market that does not require upgrades to existing appliances in the mobile network or application data center the present disclosure can eliminate the friction in the value chain by being a smart enabler between the operators and the OTT ecosystems.

Moreover while mobile networks may not have enough capacity when compared to contemporary fiber based fixed line access networks significant inefficiencies can result due to the application and network not working in tandem due to the complexities in the application flow. In addition to addressing the economic imperatives discussed above the present disclosure can achieve for example without limitation unclogging of the shared wireless link substantial improvements to the operating efficiency of the radio access network as well as the packet core in an access agnostic fashion e.g. for all types of 2G 3G and 4G wireless data systems dramatic improvement in application performance e.g. for any application and can provide a multitude of market facing enablement solutions to address the economic problems.

The basic architectural elements of the present disclosure comprise the following 1 a mobility network insertion platform 2 an app and cloud delivery framework and 3 an interconnect between the insertion platform and delivery framework that can be local and distributed. The mobility network insertion platform can be agnostic to the access network type can provide clear separation of control plane from the data plane and can process just data plane while ensuring control plane packets are handled by the existing network functional elements. The mobility network insertion platform can also provide application programming interfaces API s for subscriber session management quality of experience QoE mobility security and telecom big data for example. The app and cloud delivery framework can be agnostic to application type and can work across static dynamic real time and conversational application data. The app and cloud delivery framework can provide clear separation of application control plane from media plane and can process just media plane while ensuring control plane flows are handled by the existing application functional elements. The app and cloud delivery framework can open software development kits SDK s for app providers to adaptively integrate and or upgrade service execution rules.

In an exemplary embodiment the present disclosure can include the following two tier distributed architecture a lower tier network of servers e.g. lower tier radiolet s that interface with an operator network and an upper tier network of servers e.g. upper tier radiolet s that interface with a content and application provider eco system including for example a publisher advertising network or enterprise datacenter or over the top communications application provider datacenter. One or more of the radiolet s may represent a temporary and partial instance of a cloud e.g. a cloudlet such as the Internet embodied and provide via one or more servers located at a radio edge e.g. outer limits of a mobile data network that provides application aware and application service s and that comprises software capsules such as for example application programming interfaces APIs . This type of radiolet instance may be referred to as Radio Edge Cloudlet . One or more lower tier radiolet s can be connected to one or more upper tier radiolet s using a high speed managed link while upper tier radiolet s may be logically connected to each other through the Internet. Adequate security and redundancy can be provisioned between the lower tier radiolet s and the upper tier radiolet s as required or desired.

The lower tier radiolet s can comprise one or more servers and storage devices and can be located at a local switching office of a mobile data network operator. The location of the lower tier radiolet may depend on transportation costs for example and or other factors . A plurality of cell sites can also be aggregated at the local switching office. In one embodiment an optimal location for the lower tier radiolet can be a location that is relatively close to subscribers but yet does not require significant capital expenditure. The lower tier radiolet s can be physically connected to a layer 2 or layer 3 switch where the layer 2 switch provides connectivity from the local switching office to a regional switching office and the layer 3 switch provides connectivity from the regional switching office to a central switching office or a router that is part of the overall network in a local switching office of a mobile data network. In one exemplary embodiment of this disclosure during operation the lower tier radiolet s may be configured to provide one or more of the following functions passively monitor control signaling messages for example A messages in an High Rata Packet Data HRPD standards based mobile data network and extract relevant parameters while processing of and responding to said controlling signaling messages for example A messages in an HRPD standards based mobile data network is handled by network elements in the packet core for example a Packet Data Service Node PDSN in and HRPD standards based mobile data network encapsulate and tunnel data traffic packets for example A packets in an HRPD standards based mobile data network for bearer packets potentially communicate with the upper tier radiolet s to dynamically fetch the content data which can be based on the business relationship with over the top OTT content and application partners where the OTT partners can be any provider of mobile content or application data be a serving point for the subscriber Internet protocol IP sessions which means that a subscriber IP session is not extended up to the upper tier radiolet s process dynamic content support content caching and storage which can be used for accelerated and efficient content delivery communicate with the operator proxy radiolet s to send and receive messages to policy and charging rules function e.g. PCRF servers real time mediation device RTMD and authentication authorization and accounting e.g. AAA servers work with the operator proxy radiolet s to enable content layer mobility during network mobility events for example layer two handoffs or inter packet control function PCF handoff in an HRPD standards based mobile network network and application layer quality of service QoS enablement and work with operator owned lawful intercept network elements.

In another exemplary embodiment of this disclosure the said tunneling and delivery of data traffic packets for example A messages in an HRPD standards based mobile data network is achieved without any extraction of parameters contained in control signaling messages for example A messages in an HRPD standards based mobile data network but instead through a combination of an automated learning method that observes packet flows between the packet core and RAN as well interfaces with existing management nodes and billing as well as accounting systems in the operator network.

The upper tier radiolet s can comprise one or more servers and storage devices located in a hosting datacenter s external to operator networks. The upper tier radiolet s can serve multiple lower tier radiolets across multiple operator networks in a given geographic area. The upper tier radiolet s can be physically connected to a layer 2 or layer 3 switch or a router that is part of the overall network in a private or public cloud datacenter. The upper tier radiolet s can comprise back to back B2B user agents and open application programming interfaces API that can interface with multiple application delivery datacenters and third party software products. In one embodiment the upper tier radiolet s may not be co located or located in the packet core for example next to a packet data serving node PDSN of an HRPD standards based mobile network or any point of present PoP of a mobile data network but rather located close to the user outside the mobile data network with a view towards enabling functionality that is typically available at a private application data center or public Internet cloud datacenters. In one embodiment of the operation the upper tier radiolet s can provide one or more of the following functions but not limited to support a mobile web services engine coupled with dynamic on demand virtualization to support multiple sessions across multiple content properties distribute content dynamically to the lower radiolet s and serve multiple operator networks. Also in an exemplary embodiment any upper tier radiolet s can communicate with multiple lower tier radiolet s within a given geographic area through a high speed managed network which will allow for leveraging of statistical multiplexing gains without any impact on content distribution application delivery and corresponding service assurance.

In an exemplary embodiment a system according to the present disclosure can also include a lower tier network of proxy servers herein referred to as operator proxy radiolet s and an upper tier network of proxy servers herein referred to as over the top proxy radiolet s . The operator proxy radiolet s can be configured to support interfaces to billing and policy enforcement in the operator network. The operator proxy radiolet s can be configured to facilitate proxying of messages from a plurality of lower tier radiolet s towards an accounting server for example a AAA server and towards a billing server for example towards a diameter based billing system and towards a policy server a PCRF server for example in HRPD standards based systems . In one embodiment of the present disclosure the operator proxy radiolet s can facilitate content layer mobility during inter PCF handoff in an HRPD network . The operator proxy radiolet s can be located relatively close to the packet core for example close to a PDSN in and HRPD based mobile data network . The over the top proxy radiolet s can be located in a large geographic area and can support interfaces to metering and application policies across multiple content and application datacenters or customized to support specific large application provider in a private datacenter of the said application provider. The location of the both operator and over the top proxy radiolets may depend on transportation costs operations costs and other costs for example and or other factors including business agreements and policies .

The present disclosure can provide means for supporting content and application layer mobility which exploits two tier network architecture and can include a distributed network management system that provides high availability managed services with or without any tight integration to operator network management systems or content eco system datacenter network management systems. The present disclosure can also provide means for interfacing to content or application eco system partner datacenters as well as mobile data network operator partner networks that can be customized based on various requirements. The present disclosure can also provide means for supporting specialized services such as for example mobile streaming peer to peer communications services and real time TV services to mobile subscribers.

In another exemplary embodiment data is fetched from various participating Internet sites and or enterprise datacenters and made available to one or more upper tier radiolet locations. The data can include but is not limited to content media feeds and application data. One or more of the upper tier radiolet s obtains the data following which the data can be replicated across multiple other upper tier radiolet s in multiple locations. The choice of other upper tier radiolet s that obtain data from the upper tier radiolet s may depend on various static and dynamic rules. Exemplary static rules may include content types and policies provided in advance by content partners where content partners can be any providers of mobile content or data and dynamic rules may be created periodically based on outputs of intelligent content management algorithms. The data may then be replicated in one or more lower tier radiolet s . The lower tier radiolet s can fetch the data from the upper tier radiolet s or the upper tier radiolet s can distribute the data to the lower tier radiolet s . Parameters for deciding which pieces of data are stored in a given lower tier radiolet may be based on the frequency of requests for the same piece of data for example the popularity of data networking datacenter and business policies or any other desired parameters.

When a subscriber mobile device requests for traffic data this request may be delivered to the lower tier radiolet s in the network that is closest to the subscriber. In one exemplary embodiment of this disclosure the closest lower tier radiolet s to the subscriber can be located at the local switching office where the traffic request from the subscriber is received. Directing the traffic request to the closest lower tier radiolet s may include identifying and separating traffic packets from network signaling and application layer signaling packets from the subscriber mobile device . In one embodiment such identification and separation can be implemented in a switch that manages and communicates across all lower tier radiolets . Then all network signaling data may be sent directly to the mobile packet core network where the core network can comprise various servers providing various particular functions such as for example and without limitation policy and charging rules function e.g. PCRF servers real time mediation device e.g. RTMD and authentication authorization and accounting e.g. AAA servers and packet data serving node PDSN servers or other network elements known in the art. Similarly application signaling packets may be sent to appropriate application provider data centers. Next all data packets that are not signaling may be declared as traffic packets and directed to the lower tier radiolet s . The lower tier radiolet s may then create a temporary instance of the content media application session and service the request in a manner similar to an existing content media application server in a cloud datacenter. In one embodiment the said content media application server may create a flow control protocol session such as for example a transmission control protocol TCP session with the subscriber mobile device using existing Internet protocols and deliver traffic data as a flow control protocol or for example a TCP datagram. Following completion of the content media application session additional sessions from the same or different subscriber mobile device s may then be processed using the same procedures. In an embodiment a wireless link is shared across multiple users and multiple cell towers or wireless access devices are aggregated at a given local switching office and accordingly a given lower tier radiolet server can process and serve multiple user requests as well as re use the same hardware and software to support multiple users across time.

Turning now to an exemplary mobile communications network in an exemplary 3G network excluding the Radio Access Network RAN according to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure is shown. The exemplary mobile communications network can comprise any type of mobile communications network including without limitation a High Rate Packet Data HRPD network a High Speed Packet Access HSPA network or a Long Term Evolution LTE network for example.

The exemplary network includes a base station controller and packet control function BSC PCF network element or servers that can be located at a local switching office not shown . Notably it should be understood that exemplary network element can be a Radio Network Controller RNC of a HSPA based network or an S 1 aggregator element of an LTE based network for example. The local switching office can be in communication with one or more cell sites not shown where the cell sites receive data requests from one or more subscriber mobile devices not shown . The subscriber mobile device can be any device that can be utilized in a mobile data network including for example cell phones personal digital assistant PDA devices laptops smart phones tablets etc. In operation the base station controller and packet control function BSC PCF server or an RNC of an HSPA network sends and or receives data or information to a mobile data network interface where the mobile interface may include an AAA server a policy server and a prepaid server . The BSC PCF server represents a layer 2 termination point in a HRPD network. In a HSPA network this element may be called a Radio Network Controlled RNC and in a LTE network this element may be called an S 1 interface aggregator.

The BSC PCF server of an HRPD network or its equivalent in HSPA or LTE network is in communication with the mobile data network interface via an L2 switch or L3 switch or policy based router PBR switch or a general purpose router and a managed IP network . The BSC PCF server is also in communication with the mobile data network interface via a L2 switch or L3 switch or PBR switch or general purpose router and managed IP networks and . In an HRPD network the BSC PCF server is in communication with a PDSN server via a L2 switch or L3 switch or PBR switch or general purpose router a managed IP network and L2 switch or L3 switch or PBR switch or router . In one embodiment of this disclosure the PDSN server may communicate with an Internet datacenter through a router over an Internet connection or any other wired or wireless communications link . The PDSN server can provide management functions e.g. IP address allocation content filtering and session recovery data functions e.g. interface for traffic data messages policing of traffic data messages and deep data packet inspection and control functions e.g. interface for signaling data messages routing of data and acting as virtual local area network VLAN .

In one embodiment of this disclosure during normal operation the BSC PCF server sends data request s received from a subscriber mobile device to the PDSN server . The PDSN server in turn sends the data request s to the Internet datacenter though the Internet connection or any other wired or wireless communications link . The Internet datacenter in response to the data request s sends requested data to the PDSN server via the Internet connection and through router . The PDSN server then sends the requested data to the BSC PCF server using one or more switches routers e.g. L2 switch L3 switch or PBR switch or router over one or more managed IP networks . Once the requested data is received at the BSC PCF server it may be sent to the subscriber mobile device that made the initial data request via the cell site not shown .

Turning now to an exemplary mobile communications network according to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure is shown. The exemplary mobile communications network may comprise any type of mobile communications network including without limitation a High Rate Packet Data HRPD network a High Speed Packet Access HSPA network or a Long Term Evolution LTE network or operator owned WiFi access network managed through a common centralized packet core network for example.

Included in this exemplary network is an upper tier radiolet comprising at least one processor executing computer readable instructions that receives data extracted from for example an Internet datacenter or a private cloud datacenter or privately owned application datacenter or any other type of datacenter through an Internet connection or via any other wired or wireless communications link . Notably although the exemplary network depicts a single upper tier radiolet it should be understood that a system according to the present disclosure may include any number of upper tier radiolets .

The upper tier radiolet is located at or proximal to for example an Internet datacenter which in this exemplary network includes a content server and the content server is in direct communication with Internet datacenter via Internet connection or any other wired or wireless communications link . The content server may obtain data from the Internet datacenter . In one embodiment the Internet datacenter comprises datacenter . The Internet datacenter may optionally comprise at least one of a public and privately owned datacenter.

In another embodiment the upper tier radiolet replicates at least a portion of the data extracted from the Internet datacenter and transmits the replicated data to another or a plurality of upper tier radiolet s not shown . Notably the upper tier radiolet may be located across a plurality of locations. The upper tier radiolet and the other upper tier radiolet not shown may be in communication with each other via at least one of a wired and wireless communications link.

In another embodiment one or more over the top proxy radiolets not shown positioned between the Internet datacenter and the upper tier radiolet may be configured to extract the data extracted from the Internet datacenter and distribute the data extracted from the Internet datacenter to the upper tier radiolet . These over the top proxy radiolet s not shown may each comprise at least one processor executing computer readable instructions to perform its various functions.

The upper tier Radiolet may further be configured to distribute at least a portion of the received data to one or more lower tier Radiolets upon request from the lower Radiolet s or pushed directly without request based on configured policies. Although this exemplary network depicts a single lower tier Radiolet it should be understood that a system according to the present disclosure may include any number of lower tier Radiolets in a given region.

As shown in this exemplary network the lower tier radiolet may be located closer to the source of the data request e.g. BSC PCF sever than the Internet datacenter . Notably closer to the source may be measured in terms of network distance rather than physical distance. In an embodiment the lower tier radiolet may be located at or proximal to a local switching site of a mobile data network . In another embodiment the lower tier radiolet may be located between the BSC PCF server and the PDSN server of the mobile data network of an HRPD standards based mobile data network. In yet another embodiment the lower tier radiolet may be located at every BSC PCF server of a mobile data network . In yet another embodiment the lower tier radiolet is placed between the cell site and the local switching office at a natural aggregation site.

The lower tier radiolet is shown in communication with the upper tier radiolet via at least one router switch over a managed network or any other wired or wireless communications link . The upper tier radiolet may be configured to select the data that is distributed to the lower tier radiolet based on one or more of a frequency of requests for a particular type of data one or more networking policies one or more datacenter policies and one or more business policies. Alternatively or additionally the lower tier radiolet may be configured to fetch data from the upper tier radiolet . The lower tier radiolet may also be configured to store portions of any received or fetched data as well as perform one or more of the following functions processing dynamic content data including without limitation manipulating inputted data to produce output data content caching and storing data. To do this the lower tier radiolet may comprise at least one processor executing computer readable instructions to perform its various functions.

In operation the lower tier radiolet may receive a data request from for example the BSC PCF server via the L2 L3 PBR switch or router and the L2 L3 PBR switch or router . In an embodiment the data request may be received at the lower tier radiolet that is located closest to the source of said data request. In another embodiment the lower tier radiolet may be located at a local switching site that receives the data request prior to transmitting the data request to said lower tier radiolet .

The lower tier radiolet may transmit in response to said data request data from the portion of received data to a source of the data request. The lower tier radiolet may establish a flow control protocol session between the lower tier radiolet and the source of the data request. The lower tier radiolet may then transmit the traffic data to the source of the data request as a flow control protocol datagram.

In another embodiment one or more operator proxy radiolets may receive data and information extracted from at least one server for example the AAA server the policy server and or the prepaid server of a core network of the mobile data network via L2 L3 PBR switch router and managed IP network . Although this exemplary network depicts a single operator proxy radiolet it should be understood that a system according to the present disclosure may include any number of operator proxy radiolets .

The operator proxy radiolet may transmit at least a portion of the extracted information to the lower tier radiolet via a router over a managed network or any other wired or wireless communications link . The extracted information may comprise information from an authentication authorization and accounting e.g. AAA server information from a policy and charging rules function e.g. PCRF server information from a real time mediation device e.g. RTMD server and or information and data from any other type of server or source. In this way the operator proxy radiolet can support and implement various fee charging and policing interfaces or any other policy security management business etc. interfaces as part of the mobile communications network .

In an embodiment the AAA server may communicate with the PDSN server using a networking protocol such as Remote Authentication Dial In User Service RADIUS for example to provide subscriber authentication information to the PDSN server during a subscriber session. The RADIUS protocol can be a networking protocol that provides authentication authorization and accounting management for subscribers. The operator proxy radiolet may request and receive a portion of the information from the AAA server via a router or switch and a managed IP network . The operator proxy radiolet provides the information e.g. subscriber information and session accounting information from the AAA server to the lower tier radiolet via router and managed network .

In another embodiment the policy server may optionally be a PCRF server. In operation the operator proxy radiolet communicates and interfaces with the PCRF server using Gx protocols for example where Gx is an online policy interface between the PDSN and the PCRF via router or switch and a managed IP network . The operator proxy radiolet provides information from the PCRF server to the lower tier radiolet via router and managed network that may be used to control policy functions e.g. credit control request update and credit control request termination .

The prepaid server may optionally comprise a RTMD server. The operator proxy radiolet optionally communicates and interfaces with the RTMD server using Diameter Gy protocols e.g. Diameter Credit Control DCCA protocol for example where Gy is an online charging interface between the PDSN and the RTMD servers via router or switch and a managed IP network . The operator proxy radiolet provides information from the RTMD to the lower tier radiolet via for example router and managed network that may be used to tag subscriber sessions as prepaid based on profile information of the subscriber session.

In an embodiment postpaid charging functions involve a RADIUS server not shown in communication with the lower tier radiolet via an operator proxy radiolet . In such an embodiment the PDSN server collects radio specific parameters e.g. Airlink Records from a Radio Access Network RAN and combines the radio specific parameters with IP network specific parameters to form one or more Usage Data Records UDR . The PDSN server can use RADIUS protocols to send the UDR information to the RADIUS server. Each UDR data packet may be associated with a correlation ID which identifies accounting records generated for a particular subscriber session and is provided to the RADIUS server by the PDSN server at the time authentication and authorization of accounting information is performed.

Similarly in one embodiment the operator proxy radiolet may collect radio specific parameters from the RAN and combine the radio specific parameters with IP network specific parameters to form UDR and use RADIUS protocols to send the UDR information to the RADIUS server not shown . Optionally the operator proxy radiolet may maintain the UDR information until it receives confirmation that the RADIUS server has properly received the information. If no confirmation is received from the RADIUS server within a period of time the operator proxy radiolet may retransmit the UDR information to the RADIUS server. The operator proxy radiolet may transmit the UDR information to other RADIUS servers.

In one embodiment various events that trigger the PDSN server to take accounting action and send the UDR information may include without limitation traffic data e.g. A messages connection termination at the PDSN server data service establishment PPP renegotiations on the PDSN server arrival of subscriber data and timer expiration. Various events that cause the PDSN server to stop sending UDR information may include without limitation an existing A connection is closed an IP flow is removed from the corresponding A and the PDSN server determines the packet data session associated with the Correlation ID has ended.

The operator proxy radiolet may not require an event to trigger accounting action but may require an event to trigger UDR termination including without limitation subscriber session termination or IP flow termination.

In another embodiment the lower tier radiolet may receive data or information from a management system server via at least one router switch over a managed network or any other wired or wireless communications link . One or more management system servers may monitor the upper tier radiolet and lower tier radiolet e.g. monitoring the number of active IP tunneled sessions the bandwidth usage of the subscriber sessions the nature of the data requests and the frequency of network usage .

Turning now to illustrates an exemplary mobility cloud interconnect framework according to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure. A mobility network comprises cell sites comprising base stations local switching sites regional switching sites central switching sites and Internet POPs and app clouds and for example as also illustrated in . The present disclosure can solve the Mobile Middle Mile problem described above by implementing lower tier radiolets deployed inside operator local switching offices and upper tier radiolets in local cloud datacenters. In this way traffic can be handled locally and can eliminate the Mobile Middle Mile . Low routed distance links and between the app clouds and and the upper tier radiolets and the lower tier radiolets can bypass the mobile network.

The present disclosure can simplify the application first mile for example by implementing upper tier radiolets with local client agents to aggregate multiple transmission control protocol TCP connections to multiple app servers from a single client session and the client side connection can be streamlined to one connection. The present disclosure can eliminate the Mobile Middle Mile through the radio edge interconnect. The present disclosure can unclog the wireless last mile through algorithms and optimizations. For example cross layer optimization algorithms and shared wireless links can increase the number of app sessions per unit time.

The present disclosure can centralize management and control functions both network and application . The present disclosure can intelligently move traffic packets application data and non control app logic closer to the user e.g. closer to the radio edge . The present disclosure implements a two tier architecture with clear separation of network and application interfaces. For example the lower tier is in between the RAN and packet core of the mobility network and the upper tier is in between the application front end and application back end. The lower tier can be a network middle end and the upper tier can be an application middle end . The adaptive overlay of the present disclosure does not require upgrades to the mobile network or application data center. The present disclosure can comprise intelligent algorithms for example inspired by wide area network WAN optimization and can be applied at the RAN.

Turning now to illustrates an exemplary flow diagram of application and packet flow according to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure. The application and packet flow without the present disclosure comprises a packet flow from the mobile RAN to the mobile core network to the legacy frontend to the backend business logic and app control logic . The application and packet flow with the present disclosure comprises a mobility platform and solution enablement communicating via one or more networks with the lower tier radiolet and a cloud platform and solution enablement communicating via one or more networks with the upper tier radiolet . The packet flow is from the mobile RAN to the lower tier radiolet and to the upper tier radiolet . The mobility platform and solution enablement moves traffic functions to the radio edge and the cloud platform and solution enablement moves application data and non control application logic closer to a user. illustrates a two tier mobility cloud interconnect platform and solutions enablement system according to the present disclosure. The two tier system preserves the control plane e.g. as illustrated by the dotted lines as is and allows for both mobility control and application control.

The fundamental approach to applying mobility to the cloud that is described herein e.g. as illustrated in comprises three basic principles 1 hyper distribution of access and functions that migrate with the user 2 optimization and interaction across layers of the stack and 3 solution stacks that abet vertical digital services provisioning.

A hyper distributed network of mobility cloud interconnect points of presence can create virtual and mobile app instances closer to the user and can migrate with the user via an adaptive overlay network of networks with no upgrades to mobile networks or app datacenters. This basic idea is counter intuitive for example the cloud comprises computing hardware software that is centralized and one that is fixed i.e. does not and is not intended to migrate with the user . The present disclosure solves the problem using the architectural framework described above and illustrated for example in . As described above the present disclosure comprises a two tier network of networks. Each tier may in turn may be hierarchical. For example in the lower tier of mobility there can be concentric circles of upper tier radiolets before reaching concentric circles of lower tier radiolets e.g. all such lower tier radiolets inside an operator s network . For example as illustrated in there can be lower tier radiolets in every category of switching offices and at cell sites which creates a natural hierarchy. Similarly there can be upper tier radiolets in proximity with different layers of lower tier radiolet which can be a general architecture.

The lower tier can comprise of a distributed set of network insertion platforms. In one embodiment of the present disclosure these mobility network insertion platforms can comprise of software executed on off the shelf hardware and each installation can comprise of a small micro rack worth of servers. In another embodiment each installation of such micro racks can be co located inside a mobile operator network at the edge of the Radio Access Network also called the radio edge . In yet another embodiment for example for 4Generation e.g. LTE networks lower tier radiolets can be installed at the cell site. Similarly for in building installations with small cells lower tier radiolets can be installed in building in a local switching room. For example software corresponding to a lower tier network of insertion platforms can be instantiated in a lower tier radiolet .

The upper tier can comprise of a distributed set of application delivery frameworks. In one embodiment of the present disclosure these app and cloud delivery frameworks can comprise of software executed on off the shelf hardware and each installation can comprise of a small micro rack worth of servers. In another embodiment each installation of such micro racks can be co located inside a local application datacenter but in proximity to the radio edge of multiple Radio Access Networks e.g. across operators serving in an area . For example software corresponding to an upper tier network of insertion platforms can be instantiated in an upper tier radiolet .

The present disclosure can comprise a collection of lower tier mobility network insertion points in a geographic area interconnected to a local upper tier app and cloud delivery framework installation supporting for example without limitation standardized but potentially multiple protocol interfaces multiple data types locality and are distributed transfer of data and logic across the two tiers with a view towards cross layer optimization between the mobility network and app cloud.

The present disclosure can comprise intelligent mobility API s as well as app and cloud SDK s exposed at the radio edge for example without limitation API s and SDK s as software modules in a platform that can be easily invoked. For example an Information API s could be just a JavaScript Object Notation JSON file stored in software and addressable using HTTP or HTTPS. SDK s can be downloadable and can compiled with the object code of the application back end. Exposing the intelligent mobility API s and app and cloud SDK s between the two tiers can allow for cross layer optimization across multiple layers of the OSI stack and can accelerate the roll out of new products and features by providing open integration environments. This can create new business lines for mobile network operators by exposing various internal network assets. The intelligent mobility API s can comprise multiple categories including for example without limitation Optimization API s that allow for performance improvements across multiple layers of the OSI stack Information API s which do not compromise on the privacy of the subscriber or network and Service API s that allow a larger ecosystem of app providers to re use various assets within an operator network. The present disclosure also can provide for vertical market facing solutions and aggregation that can enable new mobile digital services including for example without limitation Mobile Commerce Solutions Enablement Mobile Media and Entertainment Solutions Enablement Enterprise Mobility Solutions Enablement e.g. Mobility Solutions Enablement for Hospitality Mobile Travel Aggregation Solutions Enablement Mobile Social Media Solutions Enablement etc.

In one embodiment the present disclosure comprises systems of providing application mobility comprising at least one mobility networking module implemented in at least one lower tier radiolet and comprising at least one processor executing computer readable instructions that cause the at least one mobility network module to perform one or more traffic data plane functions. The software defined mobility networking SDMN functional module can comprise of implementing the traffic plane functions of the access network session in a distributed or hyper distributed manner while retaining management plane and control plane functions in a centralized packet core of an operator network. The traffic data plane functions can be implemented in a distributed manner in the at least one lower tier radiolet . The management plane and control plane functions can be implemented in an operator proxy radiolet .

The traffic plane data may be directed to pass through another mobile data network or more generally another Internet Protocol IP based data network. This allows for traffic plane functions to interact directly with the app layer while retaining billing policy security and other control management plane functions in a centralized core. The traffic functions may be moved closer to the user without requiring upgrades to existing network or datacenters. In one embodiment the traffic plane can be implemented in a distributed manner in a lower tier radiolet while the management plane functions corresponding to billing policy enforcement compliance and other related functions are implemented in a centralized network element referred to as an operator proxy radiolet . In one embodiment the signaling functions in the control plane can be implemented in existing packet core elements thereby ensuring no network upgrades are necessary. In one embodiment the software architecture comprises hundreds of atomic functional elements that are germane to the mobility networking stack followed by packet processing driver routines which can be pre created as well as auto created based on active network states and policies.

The present disclosure can comprise at least one mobility application module implemented in at least one upper tier radiolet and comprising at least one processor executing computer readable instructions that cause the at least one mobility network module to perform one or more application data plane functions. The software defined mobility app framework SDMAF functional module can comprise of implementing just the application data plane functions of an app session in a distributed or hyper distributed manner in the at least one upper tier radiolet while retaining management plane and control plane functions in centralized modules of an application provider data center. The management plane and control plane functions can be implemented in an over the top proxy OTT radiolet .

This allows for application date plane functions to interact with the network layer while retaining metering policy security and other control management plane functions in a centralized app provider data center. In one embodiment of the present disclosure the application data plane is implemented in a distributed manner in an upper tier radiolet while the management plane functions corresponding to billing policy enforcement compliance and other related functions are implemented in a centralized network element referred to as an OTT Proxy Radiolet . In another embodiment the signaling functions in the control plane can be implemented in existing app core network elements thereby ensuring no application data center upgrades are necessary. In another embodiment the software architecture comprises hundreds of atomic micro services that are germane to various applications followed by session delivery driver routines which can be pre created as well as auto created based on active application states and policies.

The present disclosure can comprise at least one mobility cloud module implemented in the at least one lower tier radiolet and the at least one upper tier radiolet and comprising at least one processor executing computer readable instructions that cause the at least one mobility cloud module to perform computing execution functions of a cloud session. The software defined mobility cloud framework SDMCF functional module can comprise of implementing the containerization plus platforms and related computing execution functions of a virtualized cloud session in a distributed or hyper distributed manner in the at least one lower tier radiolet and the at least one upper tier radiolet while retaining management plane and control plane functions in centralized network elements of a cloud provider datacenter. The management plane and control plane functions can be implemented in a cloud proxy radiolet .

For example in any given server the base operating system can be virtualized into multiple independent user space instances e.g. containers . Each individual container can be treated as an independent machine where application logic can be executed. Since each upper and lower tier radiolet comprises of multiple servers installed in a distributed fashion the present disclosure can create a large collection of independent machines that are logically separated but physically executed in a small collection of servers.

In addition to creating individual containers standard and application network specific logging mechanisms can be supported. These logs can be treated as an input to a parsing engine to create an extensive collection of reports at both the network and application layers. This allows for computing execution plane functions to interact directly with the app and network layers while retaining control management plane functions related to container and virtual machine set up in a centralized orchestration element. In one embodiment this function can be implemented in a distributed manner in both the lower tier radiolets and the upper tier radiolets while the management plane functions are implemented in a centralized network element referred to as a Cloud Proxy Radiolet . In one embodiment the signaling functions in the control plane can be implemented in existing orchestration elements thereby ensuring no upgrades to a cloud provider datacenter are necessary. In one embodiment the software architecture comprises of hundreds of atomic functional elements that are germane to instantiating cloud based virtual machines and platforms followed by software infra and platform enablement driver routines which can be pre created as well as auto created based on active cloud states and policies.

The present disclosure can comprise at least one interconnect module implemented in the at least one lower tier radiolet and the at least one upper tier radiolet and comprising at least one processor executing computer readable instructions that cause the at least one interconnect module to perform communication functions. The software defined interconnect functional module can form the go between between the SDMN SDMAP and SDMCF functional modules. All inter function communications formats and protocols can be handled by the interconnect functional module. Typical communication methods include for example without limitation file based communications using the File Transfer Protocol FTP Enterprise buses e.g. between software systems not just modules Web Services and Restful API s. Other mechanisms are also applicable depending on network and or application functions. In one embodiment the interconnect functional module is executed in software at both the lower tier and upper tier radiolets and in a distributed manner.

The present disclosure comprises at least one solution module implemented in the at least one lower tier radiolet and the at least one upper tier radiolet and comprising at least one processor executing computer readable instructions that cause the at least one solution module to perform application support and data storage functions. The software defined solution function module can contain the solution logic and the data stores that enable various digital services. The solution logic modules can comprise of software programs which call upon individual software modules e.g. micro services and data stores e.g. collections of databases of different types . These can be customized solution stacks that can enable various application providers to offer mobile digital services while providing comprehensive support metering monitoring and management. In one embodiment the solution functional module can be executed in software at both the lower tier and upper tier radiolets and in a distributed manner.

The present disclosure comprises at least one mobility interface module implemented in the at least one lower tier radiolet and the at least one upper tier radiolet and comprising at least one processor executing computer readable instructions that cause the at least one mobility interface module to perform interfacing functions. The software defined mobility API s and Cloud SDK s functional module can comprise of multiple software based protocol architectures with embedded state machines code books and interfaces to other software modules and customer interfaces. The interface functions can be the software modules themselves but expose an underlying software asset e.g. interface to a software asset . For example the software assets can be other software programs or data objects files. In one embodiment the software mobility interface module can be executed in software at both the lower tier and upper tier radiolets and in a distributed manner.

As described above applying mobility to apps in the cloud comprises an architectural framework. In one embodiment applying mobility to apps in the cloud can comprise a software defined approach consisting of multiple functional modules. Applying mobility to apps in the cloud can resolve the fundamental issues in the complex first mile the long Mobile Middle Mile and clogged wireless last mile. As described in the present disclosure a Mobility Cloud Interconnect system e.g. comprising of platforms and solution stacks with distributed deployment and close coordination across layers allows for connectivity computing and curation in the mobile Internet to co exist. The systems and methods of the present disclosure when combined with a local optimized instantiation for example at the radio edge allows for the creation of a personalized mobility cloud app instance close to the user thereby solving the three problems of the complex first mile the long middle mile and clogged wireless last mile.

In one embodiment of the present disclosure instantiation of client agents at an upper tier radiolet allows for aggregation of multiple requests streamlining client side connections across a system of requests to potentially one single connection leading to a single optimized path from the client to the agent thereby dramatically simplifying the first mile. In one embodiment locating lower tier radiolets and the SDMN functional modules at the radio edge allows for traffic to completely by pass the packet core thereby effectively eliminating the Mobile Middle Mile . In one embodiment a combination of state machines e.g. for a given user across multiple requests followed by cross layer optimization methods allow for each individual user session to be more responsive. This in turn can lead to user sessions to be completed faster leading to more sessions from the same user or new user sessions in a given unit time. Given the shared nature of the wireless last mile this allows for unclogging of the last mile. The present disclose also provides means for supporting app layer mobility which exploits two tier network architecture and can include a distributed network management system that provides high availability managed services without any operational integration to operator networks or app eco system datacenters.

In one embodiment the hyper distributed nature of a Mobility Cloud Interconnect System combined with intelligent Mobility API s and Cloud SDK s plus a service creation engine customized to each vertical solution allow for close coordination between all three miles and hence the app and network can work in tandem. Through a combination of software defined functional modules embodiments of which were described above such a system preserves the control logic centrally e.g. across the network cloud and application while moving network traffic app data and non control app logic close to the user and executed in a self contained cloud instance. In addition the present disclosure provides means for identification of traffic flow data from signaling flow data and serving content and application data from the lower tier radiolet . The signaling flow data at both the network and app layers are permitted to pass through an existing mobile telecommunications network that include servers for handling subscriber session and mobility management without any changes as well as an app data center where application layer control logic is handled. The traffic flow data are directed to pass through another mobile telecommunications network. The present disclosure can also provide means for distribution storage and delivery of content as well as hosting of applications from the lower tier radiolet in the other mobile telecommunications network. Still further the present disclosure provides means for intelligent resource management and flow control methods applied to content delivery and application sessions which can lead to dramatic improvements in operating efficiency of the end to end path across the three miles of the flow.

In another exemplary embodiment app data is fetched from various participating Internet sites and or enterprises and made available to one or more upper tier radiolet locations. The data can include for example without limitation content media feeds and application data. One or more of the upper tier radiolet s can obtain the data following which the data can be replicated across multiple other upper tier radiolet s in multiple locations. The choice of other upper tier radiolet s that obtain data from the upper tier radiolet s may depend on various static and dynamic rules. Exemplary static rules may include content types and policies provided in advance by content partners where content partners can be any providers of mobile content or data and dynamic rules may be created periodically based on outputs of intelligent content management algorithms. The data may then replicated in one or more lower tier radiolet s . The lower tier radiolet s can fetch the data from the upper tier radiolet s or the upper tier radiolet s can distribute the data to the lower tier radiolet s . Parameters for deciding which pieces of data are stored in a given lower tier radiolet may be based on the frequency of requests for the same piece of data for example the popularity of data networking datacenter and business policies or any other desired parameters.

In another exemplary embodiment one or more micro services with corresponding service logic can act upon the app data in a manner that is based on app policies or personalized user policies or a combination leading to app layer curation where connectivity and computing co exist.

When a subscriber mobile device opens an app this triggers a request for data this request may be delivered to the lower tier radiolet s in the network and then on to an upper tier radiolet that is closest to the subscriber. The closest radiolet s to the subscriber along with an inter connect between the upper and lower tiers can be located at the radio edge where the traffic request from the subscriber is received. Directing the traffic request to the closest lower tier radiolet s can include identifying and separating traffic packets from signaling packets from the subscriber mobile device . In one embodiment such identification and separation can be implemented in a switch that manages and communicates across all lower tier radiolets .

All signaling data can be sent directly to the core network where the core network can comprise various servers providing various particular functions such as for example and without limitation policy and charging rules function PCRF servers real time mediation device RTMD and authentication authorization and accounting AAA servers and packet data serving node PDSN servers or other network elements known in the art. All data packets that are not signaling can be declared as traffic packets and directed to the lower radiolet s . The lower tier radiolet s may then create a temporary instance of the content media application communication session and in combination with an upper tier radiolets service the request in a manner similar to an existing content media application communication server in a cloud datacenter. In one embodiment the content media application communication server may create a flow control protocol session such as for example a transmission control protocol TCP session with the subscriber mobile device using existing Internet protocols and deliver traffic data as a flow control protocol or for example a TCP datagram. Following completion of the content media application communication session additional sessions from the same or different subscriber mobile device s may then be processed using the same procedures.

The present disclosure can achieve efficiency improvements through one or more of the following fundamentally fetching storing and delivering data from the closest lower tier radiolet s and or routing mobile to mobile communications through the closest lower tier radiolet s reduces the latency of the content media application session and can allow more subscriber sessions to be hosted on the same network completing a session in a shorter amount of time also allows for a given subscriber mobile device to stop sending various control messages e.g. pilot beams and channel quality information app layer keep alive messages etc. which can allow the network and datacenter to admit additional subscribers who may be able to make additional traffic data requests and through a combination of resource management and flow control methods additional and significant gains in operating efficiencies can be achieved which can allow for faster flow control protocol sessions. Furthermore following the completion of a data content or application session the present disclosure can allow for additional sessions from the same or different subscriber mobile devices using the same methods.

In one embodiment the present disclosure can include the following features applicable to a content eco system subscriber base for example without limitation the lower radiolet s directly provide storage and caching for static content pages and dynamic mobile content acceleration may be provided through a hybrid caching storage and mobile microservices solution. The functionality for dynamic site acceleration may be split between both the upper and lower tier radiolet s . Moreover app data may be stored locally in transient databases with corresponding microservices logic for retrieval delivery synch up etc. Both the upper tier radiolet s and lower tier radiolet s may be configured to support any type of software application and software application roll out e.g. its introduction to the general public may depend on business strategy and product management input from content eco system subscribers. To further expedite the roll out of new app features and products the upper tier radiolets may come pre equipped with hundreds of microservices for any app provider to make use of. Locations of subscribers may be discovered when a subscriber makes an app request. In an exemplary embodiment every request for app data passes through a lower tier radiolet of a Mobility Cloud Interconnect System. As the user migrates from one location to another various state machines can be easily updated to determine which lower tier radiolet the user is attached to. This information can then be stored so that optimal paths for data communication between subscribers can be determined. In the case of mobile subscribers data communication continuity may be provided when mobile devices move from one location e.g. one radio edge to another.

The present disclosure can provide various value added services packaged around application programming interface API information in the form of metadata that will abet monetization. The present disclosure can provide the value added services to subscribers but obtain them from operators as well as other third party vendors while providing necessary information to generate these monetization API s essentially acting as a super market shelf for the value added services. These value added services from the content and app eco systems perspective allows the acceleration of roll out of new services and leveraging of market opportunities earlier than currently possible.

In an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure intelligent algorithms can be provided to improve the efficiency of the RAN by increasing the number of pages sessions that are delivered or completed in a unit of time over a given unit of spectrum. This can be achieved through a set of optimizations to flow control algorithms that are typically part of TCP and treating flow control as an outer loop control mechanism adapted to work with existing mac layer scheduling algorithms. In one embodiment the present disclosure does not require any modifications to the mac layer scheduling algorithms. A coordinated exchange between source and target serving nodes of content information as well as TCP parameters referred to as content layer mobility can be provided for session continuity. This addresses the issue of a subscriber migrating from one content serving node to another node during a content app session. In one embodiment the present disclosure can operate above the RAN which can provide for an architecture and deployment agnostic solution which means that the present disclosure is not constrained by the type of data network deployment of mobile operators e.g. macro micro pico and femto cellular deployments .

Turning now to an exemplary social media exchange e.g. a messaging application or a real time audio exchange between two parties according to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure the social media exchange comprises of an exemplary mobile to mobile data flow according to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure. In this flow a caller device and callee device e.g. two mobile phones or other communication devices capable of voice over IP VoIP communications may be connected to the same RAN. For example the two devices may use the same provider network and may even be located within the same cell. Call setup signaling through various app servers may take place between caller device RAN core network peering point and app signaling server. Similarly signaling may also take place between callee device RAN core network peering point and app signaling server. In one embodiment an improved or optimal data communication of traffic packets or media packets as applicable in the application layer between caller device and callee device may follow the path of caller device to RAN RAN to lower tier radiolet lower tier radiolet to upper tier radiolet upper tier radiolet to target upper tier radiolet where the callee device is anchored target upper tier radiolet to the callee device or vice versa without proceeding through the conventional paths across the three miles described earlier e.g. the first mile the middle mile and the last mile . In order for such optimized routing to work the location of the target upper tier radiolet where the callee device is anchored is retrieved from a database that is locally available at every upper tier radiolet . The information populated in such a database can be from the location discovery mechanism described earlier.

Turning now to an exemplary mobile to mobile data flow according to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure locations of caller device and callee device can be known by the system. However these devices may cross radio edges prior to or in the course of a data exchange. Thus caller device and callee device may start out in the same cell but may drift into different cells during a session. In another embodiment caller device and callee device may start a session geographically separated and or remain geographically separated for an entire session. In yet another embodiment caller device and callee device may be in separate provider networks and may or may not be geographically close to one another . The flow described above may be used to facilitate communications between caller device and callee device in all these situations for example.

In such near real time or real time mobile to mobile social media transactions the device types and capabilities may differ. For instance in an audio exchange the coding formats supported by the end points may be different. In an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure support for alteration and normalization of formats in both directions e.g. transcoding to support an exchange that is transparent to the user device can be performed by one or more micro services at the one or more upper tier radiolets Alternatively in an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure the one or more upper tier radiolets involved in such mobile to mobile social media transactions and exchanges may determine in advance a format that is common to device end points and hence use a transcoder free operation for the exchange.

In one embodiment of the present disclosure optimization of search functions typically embedded in any app are supported. This applies to static dynamic near real time and real time applications. A typical use case comprises for example client app embedded with a search dialog function and the server side of the app performing such search functions on a distributed collection of application databases and returning such search results with a hyperlink to access results of said search. In an exemplary embodiment various application layer databases or subset of the databases can be implemented across one or more upper tier radiolets . In addition to implementing databases at said upper tier radiolets microservices containing search data logic shall be implemented in these or larger collection of upper tier radiolets . Once a request for a search is received by the upper tier radiolet closest to the client one or more microservices may be invoked and executed in an operating system container at said upper tier radiolet . The software and logic for such execution shall reside at the said upper tier radiolet . Following this preliminary execution of one or more micro services a discovery of which application databases contain application data and corresponding hyperlinks that pertain to the search request can be completed. The results of the search are then curated based on various application policies logic and real time inputs and a response to the client is assembled. The said upper tier radiolet simultaneously can send the response to the client and can request app data from various application databases distributed across multiple upper tier radiolets and other application back end infrastructure owned by the application provider over a high speed link. App data received from such application databases will potentially be available at the upper tier radiolet before the end user requests any specific piece of app data that is embedded in the search response.

Once the client app receives the search response the end user requests are then served directly from the upper tier radiolet . Upon completion of the search request the upper tier radiolet may choose to apply internal logic to continue and store various pieces of app data received and or to service future requests from the same or different clients. Such internal logic can be further optimized by setting a time to live parameter which when expired allows the upper tier radiolet to delete such app data records.

In one embodiment of the present disclosure mobility API s can be used for various business uses and benefits. Table 1 below provides an exemplary list of mobility API s according to the present disclosure and an exemplary business use case and business benefit for each exemplary API. While Table 1 below may use the language of 3G HSPA networks it should be understood that the exemplary mobility API s are applicable to any access network type including for example without limitation HRPD LTE WiFi etc.

In one embodiment of the present disclosure an outer loop algorithm can be implemented at the lower tier radiolet s . The outer loop algorithm is a cross layer resource management algorithm that improves the operating efficiency of the spectrum. The outer loop algorithm can apply information obtained in one layer to another layer. In an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure the outer loop algorithm can allow individual point to point protocol PPP sessions not just transmission control protocol TCP sessions to be optimized. When individual PPP sessions are optimized the system can deliver more pages per PPP session.

In a further exemplary embodiment any of the features and or method steps described herein may be embodied in and or implemented by any of the systems devices processors or apparatus described herein. Moreover any of the method steps described herein may be implemented in an operator network and or an Internet cloud datacenter using existing equipment and apparatus by implementing one or more software applications having computer readable instructions that when executed cause said existing equipment and apparatus to perform or exhibit one or more of the method steps and or features described in this disclosure.

A system according to the present disclosure may comprise one or more computer devices comprising one or more processors configured to execute computer readable instructions that when executed cause said one or more computer devices to perform any of the method steps and or exhibit any of the features described herein. The computing devices may include any combination of and any number of hierarchical system of radiolets datacenters computers data sources data request sources servers mobile communication devices smart phones tablets any other mobile telecommunication and or mobile data network elements and or any other computing and or communication devices.

Notably the systems and methods described herein are not limited to typical mobile communications. Instead the systems and methods described herein may be in connection with mobile entertainment enablement solutions mobile infotainment enablement solutions mobile ad tech enablement solutions mobile social media enablement solutions mobile commerce enablement solutions mobile enterprise application enablement solutions mobile peer to peer enablement solutions mobile communications enablement solutions mobile enterprise application enablement solutions and other mobile solutions such as toll free data enablement solutions.

While the present disclosure has been discussed in terms of certain embodiments it should be appreciated that the present disclosure is not so limited. The embodiments are explained herein by way of example and there are numerous modifications variations and other embodiments that may be employed that would still be within the scope of the present disclosure.

