---

title: Implementing engineering unit conversions associated with control devices
abstract: A converter component can efficiently manage conversion of data associated with a control system from one engineering unit (EU) type to another EU type, and/or conversion of the data from one language to another language, based at least in part on the user. The converter component can identify a user, or can receive a conversion selection(s) from the user, and can automatically select a specified subset of EU conversions and/or language conversions to employ in relation to the user, convert the data associated with the control system in accordance with the subset, and present the converted data to the user via the interface. The converter component can present a pre-populated table of EU conversions associated with the subset, and can allow a user to add or modify an EU conversion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09405284&OS=09405284&RS=09405284
owner: ROCKWELL AUTOMATION TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
number: 09405284
owner_city: Mayfield Heights
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160127
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 293 931 filed Nov. 10 2011 and entitled IMPLEMENTING ENGINEERING UNIT CONVERSIONS ASSOCIATED WITH CONTROL DEVICES the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The subject disclosure relates to automation control and more specifically to implementing engineering unit conversions associated with control devices in an industrial control system.

Industrial control systems can be employed to regulate operation of equipment in an industrial environment where operation of the equipment can include process es typically directed to accomplishment of a complex task or a streamlined automated task such as large scale manufacturing. Regulation of operation of the equipment and related process es typically exploits and produces substantive amounts of control data which include for example configuration data such as controller code human machine interface HMI data process recipe s and report definitions or the like. In addition operation of industrial control systems also produces both real time and historical data about the status of regulated equipment and related process es the data including for example alarms process values and audit error logs. To operate industrial control systems various HMIs in the industrial environment render control data real time or last known and historical data through operator interfaces which convey process overviews or equipment detail. Multiple operator interfaces can be created to provide rich information related to the various control processes implemented in the industrial control system so that the operator can switch between them to monitor various aspects of the equipment and related process es under control.

Conventional control systems typically present data such as operation data associated with a control system in engineering units that are static in nature. However different users can desire different engineering units with regard to the same type of data. For example one user may desire to view an item of data associated with a control device in inches while another user may desire to view that item of data in centimeters. Certain conventional control systems have allowed a user to define engineering unit conversions on individual display fields on HMI devices. However such conventional processes are time consuming and prone to errors.

Conventional control systems also typically present data associated with a control system in a particular language in a static manner. However different users can desire viewing data associated with a control system in different languages.

The above described deficiencies of today s systems are merely intended to provide an overview of some of the problems of conventional systems and are not intended to be exhaustive. Other problems with the state of the art and corresponding benefits of some of the various non limiting embodiments may become further apparent upon review of the following detailed description.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the subject disclosure. This summary is not an extensive overview and it is not intended to identify key critical elements of the subject disclosure or to delineate any scope. The sole purpose of this summary is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

The disclosed subject matter can be employed to efficiently manage conversion of data associated with a control system from one engineering unit EU type to another EU type and or conversion of the data from one language to another language based at least in part on the user and or the metadata e.g. tag associated with a control device of the control system. In accordance with various aspects a converter component can identify a user or can receive a conversion selection s from the user via a user interface UI component e.g. Human Machine Interface HMI and can automatically select a subset of conversion functions comprising a specified subset of EU conversion functions a specified subset of language conversion functions and or a subset of conversion functions comprising both EU conversion functions and language conversion functions to employ in relation to the user convert the data associated with the control system in accordance with the subset of conversion functions and present the converted data to the user via the UI component e.g. during run time or at another desired time . At a desired time e.g. prior to run time during run time the converter component can present a pre populated conversion table comprising EU conversion functions and or a pre populated table of language conversion functions to the user and the user can select the desired EU conversion functions e.g. select an entire set of EU conversion functions or individual EU conversion functions language conversion functions e.g. select an entire set of language conversion functions or individual language conversion functions and or hybrid conversion functions comprising EU and language conversion functions in the conversion table s . In another aspect the converter component can allow a user to add modify or remove conversion function to in or from a conversion table.

In accordance with various aspects the disclosed subject matter can comprise a system that includes at least one processor configured to execute one or more sets of code instructions retained in at least one memory the one or more sets of code instructions when executed by the at least one processor implement a group of components comprising a user interface component configured to present a subset of items of data or a subset of converted items of data associated with a control system and a converter component configured to identify a subset of conversion functions usable to convert at least a portion of the subset of items of data based at least in part on a subset of user preferences and convert respective items of data of the subset of items of data to generate respective converted items of data of the subset of converted items of data in accordance with respective conversion functions of the subset of conversion functions.

In accordance with various other aspects the disclosed subject matter can include a method comprising employing at least one processor to execute code instructions retained in a memory the code instructions when executed by the at least one processor perform at least the following group of acts including the act of identifying a subset of conversion functions for use with a subset of items of data associated with a control system based at least in part on a subset of user preferences and the act of automatically converting respective items of data of the subset of items of data to generate respective converted items of data of a subset of converted items of data in accordance with respective conversion functions of the subset of conversion functions.

In accordance with still other aspects the disclosed subject matter can comprise a computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium that retains computer readable instructions that in response to execution cause a device to perform operations comprising identifying a subset of conversion functions for use with a subset of items of data associated with a control system based at least in part on a subset of user preferences and converting respective items of data of the subset of items of data to generate respective converted items of data of a subset of converted items of data in accordance with respective conversion functions of the subset of conversion functions.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends certain illustrative aspects of the disclosed subject matter are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles disclosed herein can be employed and is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and novel features will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The subject disclosure is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding thereof. It may be evident however that the subject disclosure can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate a description thereof.

Control system users e.g. operators maintenance technicians etc. prefer to have control system related data e.g. process variables presented to them in engineering units EUs e.g. inches feet ft millimeters mm centimeters cm meters m pounds lbs grams kilograms kg degrees fahrenheit F. degrees celsius C. etc. that are familiar to them. However the EUs preferred by the users are not always the same as the EUs used in the programming of control devices associated with the control system. Conventional approaches to address this problem in a piecemeal fashion are inefficient as such approaches are time consuming and prone to error.

To overcome the deficiencies of conventional systems and methods the disclosed subject matter can be employed to efficiently manage conversion of data associated with an industrial environment from one EU type to another EU type and or conversion of the data from one language to another language based at least in part on the user and or metadata e.g. tag associated with a control device providing the data. In accordance with various aspects a converter component can identify a user or can receive a conversion selection s from the user via a user interface UI component e.g. Human Machine Interface HMI and can automatically select a specified subset of EU conversions and or a specified subset of language conversions to employ in relation to the user convert the data associated with the control system in accordance with the subset and present the converted data to the user via the interface e.g. during run time or at another desired time . The converter component can present a pre populated table of engineering EUs and or a pre populated table of language conversions to the user and the user can select the desired EU conversion and or language conversion from the table s . In another aspect the converter component can allow a user to add or modify an EU conversion or a language conversion to or in the respective tables.

As used in this application the terms component system platform layer controller terminal station node interface HMI client and the like can refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to or that is part of an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein such entities can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor a hard disk drive multiple storage drives of optical or magnetic storage medium including affixed e.g. screwed or bolted or removably affixed solid state storage drives an object an executable a thread of execution a computer executable program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also components as described herein can execute from various computer readable storage media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or a firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that provides at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components. While the foregoing examples are directed to aspects of a component the exemplified aspects or features also apply to a system platform interface layer controller terminal and the like.

In accordance with various embodiments one or more controllers can be employed in an industrial control system. A controller can be embodied in a programmable automation controller PAC which can be a dedicated programmable logic controller PLC a personal computer PC based controller or the like. It is to be noted that a controller e.g. PLC can be a dedicated piece of hardware that is self contained or in the case of a soft controller e.g. soft PLC a piece of software that runs on a computer and provides controller like control. For instance in the case of a soft controller code can be extracted by the soft controller to access a project database directly to extract name information.

A terminal can communicate with the controller and or other devices such as an input output I O module drives motion controllers process instruments sensors etc. in or associated with a control platform associated with the industrial control system. Control code and control data structures in the control platform can represent control logic that can administer equipment and related processes functionally coupled to the control platform. In an aspect control platform is an industrial automation control environment and the control logic is automation control logic. To facilitate operation of the control system control logic can be developed during design time wherein the control logic can be implemented e.g. executed at run time. During design time e.g. in the design environment in an aspect instruction s data type s and metadata tag s that comprise control code can be produced and retained as part of configuration or composition of a control project or application for use in operations for the control system e.g. during run time .

As used herein the terms to infer and inference refer generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

Furthermore the terms set or subset as employed herein exclude the empty set e.g. the set with no elements therein. Thus a set or a subset in the subject disclosure includes one or more elements or entities. As an illustration a set of controllers includes one or more controllers a set of data resources includes one or more data resources etc. Likewise the term group as utilized herein refers to a collection of one or more entities e.g. a group of nodes refers to one or more nodes.

Various aspects or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches also can be used.

In an aspect the system also can include a user interface UI component e.g. a HMI one or more UIs contained within a HMI or one or more UIs associated with a HMI that can be communicatively coupled to the controller component in the industrial environment. The UI component can comprise one or more UIs such as a display screen s e.g. graphical UI GUI touch screen GUI input s output s keyboard mouse trackpad etc. as more fully disclosed herein wherein the UIs can be employed to receive input from a user e.g. operator maintenance technician etc. or present information relating to the industrial environment e.g. information relating to the devices and processes in the industrial environment to the user.

To overcome the deficiencies of conventional systems in accordance with various aspects and embodiments the system can comprise a converter component that can be communicatively coupled to the controller component and UI component in the industrial environment and can convert data associated with the industrial environment from a first type of EU to a second type of EU and or convert the data from a first language to a second language based at least in part on the user and or a tag s associated with the data. For instance a subset of tags associated with a subset of automation devices can respectively provide data in respective EUs wherein for example a first tag can be associated with a first piece of data expressed in an EU of inches and a second tag can be associated with a second piece of data expressed in an EU of pounds. However a user can desire that the first piece of data be expressed in centimeters and the second piece of data be expressed in kilograms when such pieces of data are presented to the user on the display screen of the UI component . In an aspect the converter component can convert the subset of data items respectively from a first subset of EUs to a second subset of EUs preferred by a user using a subset of conversions. For instance the converter component can read or otherwise identify respective EUs of respective data items based at least in part on metadata e.g. tags respectively associated with the data items and obtained from the automation device s e.g. controller associated with the data items and the respective data items can be converted by the converter component using respective conversion functions and can be displayed by the UI component with data values corresponding to the desired respective EUs and or with information e.g. EU labels displayed in a desired language. In accordance with various aspects the subset of conversions can be based at least in part on the language e.g. English German French Spanish Italian Japanese Chinese etc. desired by the user an industry EU standard typically applicable in the region e.g. country where the industrial environment is being utilized or another desired basis.

For example with regard to data associated with an automation device a piece of data associated with a tag preferably is expressed in the EU of inches in an English speaking country like the United States while in a German speaking country like Germany the piece of data associated with the tag is preferably expressed in the EU of centimeters and while in a French speaking country like France the piece of data associated with the tag is preferably expressed in the EU of millimeters. If the piece of data is expressed in the EU of inches by the tag but the user speaks French and or is used to utilizing the EU standard e.g. regional industry standard relating to EUs associated with France the user can utilize the converter component via the UI component to select the conversion function applicable to convert the piece of data from the EU standard applicable to the United States to the EU standard applicable to France and or can convert the language from English to French when presenting the piece of data to the user via the UI component e.g. the display can be switched from a first language to a second language so that information relating to the data associated with the control system is presented in the second language in accordance with the selected conversion function s . The disclosed subject matter can extend such conversion globally wherein in an aspect the converter component can globally apply e.g. automatically the subset of conversions to convert a subset of data from a first type of EU standard and or first language to a second type of EU standard and or second language based at least in part on selection of the subset of conversions by the user via the UI component or automatic selection of the subset of conversions by the converter component based at least in part on identification or authentication of the user by the converter component .

In accordance with an aspect the UI component can comprise more than one display screen or can split a display screen into more than one portion e.g. more than one display window . The converter component can convert e.g. transform respective items of data associated with respective tags from a first subset of EUs and or first language to a second subset of EUs and or second language for presentation in a first display portion of the UI component to a first user e.g. in accordance with the user preferences of the first user and can convert the respective items of data associated with respective tags from a first subset of EUs and or first language to a third subset of EUs and or third language for presentation in a second display portion of the UI component to a second user e.g. in accordance with the user preferences of the second user .

In still another aspect there can be a first UI component and a second UI component e.g. a remote UI component associated with a separate terminal wherein the first UI component can be utilized by the first user and the second UI component can be utilized by the second user. The converter component can convert the respective items of data associated with respective tags from a first subset of EUs and or first language to a second subset of EUs and or second language for presentation on a first display screen of the first UI component to the first user e.g. in accordance with the user preferences of the first user and can convert the respective items of data associated with respective tags from a first subset of EUs and or first language to a third subset of EUs and or third language for presentation on a second display screen of the second UI component to the second user e.g. in accordance with the user preferences of the second user .

In yet another aspect the converter component can include one or more tables such as a conversion table e.g. EU conversion table language based conversion table or a hybrid EU and language conversion table wherein a table can comprise for example a subset of EU conversions e.g. conversion functions a subset of language conversions and or a subset of language and EU conversions which can be used to convert data e.g. convert data values associated with automation devices in the industrial environment. A conversion table can include cells such as a base cell and a conversion cell wherein a base cell can include the EU employed in relation to a piece of data associated with the control system in the industrial environment and a conversion cell corresponding to or linked to a base cell can comprise a corresponding conversion function that can be used by the converter component to convert a value of a piece of data expressed in an EU associated with a base cell to another value that expresses the piece of data using a different EU corresponding to the different EU associated with the conversion cell.

In accordance with various aspects or embodiments the converter component can generate or provide one or more menus to a user via the UI component wherein the one or more menus can include items such as EUs EU conversion functions language conversion functions etc. that can be selected by the user to facilitate selecting a subset of conversion functions creating or modifying a conversion function populating a table with conversion functions etc. A menu can be presented via selection of an item in a tool bar or selection of a cell in a table wherein selection of the menu item can result in presentation of a menu e.g. drop down menu presented at or near the selected item or cell and or a separate menu screen can be presented to the user via the UI component .

With regard to EU translations a table can comprise a first column comprising a plurality of typical EUs associated with the control system. The table can include a specified number of other columns that respectively can be used for a specified number of different subsets of EU conversions to be performed on data e.g. convert a first EU to a second EU .

With regard to language translations a table can comprise a first column comprising a plurality of typical EUs associated with the control system. The table also can include a specified number of other columns that respectively can be used for a specified number of different language translations EU conversion specifications e.g. base EU associated with a tag is in inches and the EU conversion specification provides that the data item is to be presented in millimeters for example in accordance with a language or regional industry standard and or EU conversions to be performed on data e.g. corresponding to the EU standards employed by the region associated with the language translation e.g. English to French language translation corresponding to use of the French industry standard with regard to EU conversions .

Referring briefly to along with depicted is a diagram of an example conversion table in accordance with various aspects and embodiments of the disclosed subject matter. The table can include a base subset of EUs that can comprise and define specified EUs contained in a column of the table . As desired the manufacturer programmer or other user can insert a subset of predefined EUs in the column for the base subset of EUs and or a user can modify the base subset of EUs to add remove or otherwise modify an EU in the base subset of EUs .

In an aspect the table can include a plurality of subsets of conversions comprising for example Conversion and Conversion which can be contained in one or more other columns of the table wherein the columns can include a subset of cells e.g. conversion cells . Each of the plurality of subsets of conversions can be employed to convert respective EUs to different EUs or not convert a certain EU when desired wherein each conversion in a subset can correspond to a respective function e.g. conversion function which accurately converts data from one EU to another EU.

For example the base subset of EUs can comprise a number of EUs including inches contained in cell and feet in cell . The table can include a column for Conversion wherein the column can include cell that can be employed to convert data that is based on an EU of inches to millimeters wherein the cell can provide a function that can be employed by the converter component to convert data associated with a tag from inches to millimeters for presentation to the user via the UI component and can include cell that can be employed to convert data that is based on an EU of feet to centimeters wherein the cell can provide a function that can be employed by the converter component to convert data associated with a tag from feet to centimeters for presentation to the user via the UI component . For instance with regard to cell the function can be EU 25.4 wherein the value of EU can be a parameter value expressed in the base EU in the tables and of respectively EU in the conversion function can represent the base EU that is associated with the metadata associated with the particular item of data being converted which is inches in this instance in the cell and the converter component can multiply the value of the piece of data associated with a tag by a factor of 25.4 based at least in part on the conversion function in the cell to obtain a result for the piece of data expressed in millimeters wherein the result can be presented to the user via the UI component . Similarly with regard to cell the function contained therein can be EU 30.48 wherein the value of EU can be a parameter value expressed in the base EU which is feet in this instance in the cell and the converter component can multiply the value of another piece of data e.g. associated with another tag by a factor of 30.48 based at least in part on the conversion function in the cell to obtain a result for this other piece of data expressed in centimeters wherein the result can be presented to the user via the UI component . As shown in the table Conversion also can include other conversion cells comprising corresponding conversion functions.

As another example the table can include a column for Conversion wherein the column can include cell that can be employed to convert data that is based on an EU of inches to centimeters wherein the cell can provide a function that can be employed by the converter component to convert data associated with a tag from inches to centimeters for presentation to the user via the UI component and can include cell that can be employed to convert data that is based on an EU of feet to inches wherein the cell can provide a function that can be employed by the converter component to convert data associated with a tag from feet to inches for presentation to the user via the UI component . For instance with regard to cell the function can be EU 2.54 wherein the value of EU can be a parameter value expressed in the base EU which is inches in this instance in the cell and the converter component can multiply the value of the piece of data associated with a tag by a factor of 2.54 based at least in part on the conversion function in the cell to obtain a result for the piece of data expressed in centimeters wherein the result can be presented to the user via the UI component . Similarly with regard to cell the function contained therein can be EU 12 wherein the value of EU can be parameter value expressed in the base EU which is feet in this instance in the cell and the converter component can multiply the value of another piece of data e.g. associated with another tag by a factor of 12 based at least in part on the conversion function in the cell to obtain a result for this other piece of data expressed in inches wherein the result can be presented to the user via the UI component . As shown in the table Conversion also can include other conversion cells comprising corresponding conversion functions.

In accordance with another aspect the table can include a cell such as cell that is a blank cell which can be employed for example when it is not desired to convert the value of a piece of data from the corresponding EU in the corresponding cell e.g. in the base subset of EUs to a different value. In such instance the piece of data can be presented to the user via the UI component without converting the piece of data or by multiplying the value of the piece of data by 1. Alternatively or additionally a conversion cell can employ a unitary function such as EU 1 that can multiply a value of a piece of data by a factor of 1 to obtain a result equivalent to the value of the piece of data wherein the result can be presented to the user via the UI component .

Referring briefly to along with depicted is a diagram of another example conversion table that can convert data values based at least in part on a language selection in accordance with various aspects and embodiments of the disclosed subject matter. The table can include a base subset of EUs that can comprise and define specified EUs contained in a column of the table . As desired the manufacturer programmer or other user can insert a subset of predefined EUs in the column for the base subset of EUs and or a user can modify the base subset of EUs to add remove or otherwise modify an EU in the base subset of EUs . The converter component can employ the conversion table in conjunction with the table depicted in by itself or employed with another conversion table.

In another aspect the table can include a plurality of subsets of conversions comprising for example the subset of English EU conversions the subset of German EU conversions and the subset of French EU conversions which can be contained in other columns of the table wherein each of the columns can include a subset of cells e.g. conversion cells . Each of the plurality of subsets of conversions can be employed to convert respective EUs from the EUs utilized in the base subset of EUs to different EUs or not convert a certain EU when desired in accordance with the respective subset of conversions wherein each conversion in a subset can correspond to a respective conversion function which can accurately convert data from one EU to another EU.

For example the base subset of EUs can comprise a number of EUs e.g. in English EUs including inches contained in cell and feet in cell . The table can include a column for the subset of English EU conversions wherein the column can include cell that can correspond to the English EU of inches and in this example instance can be left blank since the corresponding base EU in cell also is expressed in inches and can include cell that can correspond to the English EU of feet and in this example instance can be left blank since the corresponding base EU in cell also is expressed in feet.

As further example the table can include a column for the subset of German EU conversions wherein the column can include cell that can be employed to convert data that is based on an EU of inches to a value expressed in an EU of centimeters. In accordance with various embodiments the cell can provide information such as a desired type of conversion e.g. inches to centimeters to another conversion table e.g. table so that the other conversion table can be aware of the data conversion to be performed e.g. convert inches to centimeters and can be employed to facilitate converting the data via the converter component and the cell can provide information such as a desired type of conversion e.g. feet to centimeters to another conversion table e.g. table so that the other conversion table can be aware of the data conversion to be performed e.g. convert feet to centimeters and can be employed to facilitate converting the data via the converter component . As shown in the table the subset of German EU conversions also can include other conversion cells comprising corresponding conversion functions.

As still another example the table can include a column for the subset of French EU conversions wherein the column can include cell that can be employed to convert data that is based on an EU of inches to a value expressed in the EU of millimeters e.g. in contrast to the conversion of the data value from the EU of inches to the EU of centimeters with regard to the German language in the subset of German EU conversions . In accordance with various embodiments the cell can provide information such as a desired type of conversion e.g. inches to millimeters to another conversion table e.g. table so that the other conversion table can be aware of the data conversion to be performed e.g. convert inches to millimeters and can be employed to facilitate converting the data via the converter component and the cell can provide information such as a desired type of conversion e.g. feet to centimeters to another conversion table e.g. table so that the other conversion table can be aware of the data conversion to be performed e.g. convert feet to centimeters and can be employed to facilitate converting the data via the converter component . As shown in the table the subset of French EU conversions also can include other conversion cells comprising corresponding conversion functions.

As yet another example there can be an instance where a piece of data associated with a tag associated with an automation device of the control system can be expressed in a first EU type e.g. millimeters such as in cell associated with a first language e.g. English language wherein the preferred EU is a second EU type e.g. inches such as depicted in cell which in this instance also is associated with the first language. In such an instance the cell can provide information such as a desired type of conversion e.g. millimeters to inches to another conversion table e.g. table so that the other conversion table can be aware of the data conversion to be performed e.g. convert millimeters to inches and can be employed to facilitate converting the data via the converter component .

There can be instances where a user can desire to display data represented using a first type of EU e.g. pounds lbs associated with a language e.g. English Units for the United Stated using a second type of EU e.g. ounces that also is associated with the same language. For instance the base subset of EUs can be in English units and the subset of English EU conversions can enable conversion of a first type of EU in a first language e.g. English language to a second type of EU in the first language. For example the subset of EUs which is in English can include an EU representing weight such as pounds lbs as contained in cell . In some implementations it can be desired to have data such as tag data associated with the control system which is presented using the English language EU of pounds converted and represented in the English language EU of ounces. In such implementations in the table the subset of English EU conversions can include cell that can indicate or include the English EU of ounces or oz and the cells and can be used to facilitate converting data e.g. data associated with a tag of an automation device represented in the English EU of pounds to the English EU of ounces for presentation via for example the UI component . The converter component using or referencing the table including cell and cell can identify instances where data e.g. tag data is represented in the English EU of pounds and can convert the values of data represented in pounds to different data values corresponding to ounces in accordance with a corresponding conversion factor that can be used to convert data from pounds to ounces e.g. x pounds x 16 ounces . The converter component can generate and or include a mapping of the cell the cell and the corresponding conversion function or factor e.g. x pounds x 16 ounces . The converter component can facilitate providing e.g. to a user the converted data e.g. data represented in the EU of ounces via an interface e.g. display screen associated with an HMI and or UI component .

In certain instances a user s can desire to create a custom subset of EU conversions such as for example a unique subset of EU conversions usable or applicable to a an entity e.g. a company a work group a class of users etc. a work project a particular controlled system etc. In accordance with some implementations a user can input information via the UI component to facilitate generating a custom subset of EU conversions that can be inserted in the table or another table to facilitate conversion of data from one EU type to another EU type in accordance with the custom subset of EU conversions. For instance the UI component can receive information from a user to generate a custom subset of EU conversions for Entity A and the converter component can generate a column for the custom subset of EU conversions associated with the Entity A. The custom subset of EU conversions can comprise a subset of cells that can contain information to facilitate conversion of data from a first EU type to a second EU type by the converter component in accordance with the custom subset of EU conversions .

For example a user associated with Entity A can desire that with regard to work projects associated with Entity A data relating to length be converted to the EU of centimeters if not already expressed in the EU of centimeters. The user can input information to the UI component to facilitate generating a custom subset of EU conversions that can be used to convert data relating to length to present such data using the EU of centimeters. The converter component can receive the input information or information relating thereto and in response can generate the custom subset of EU conversions and or a mapping between respective cells e.g. cell cell cell cell etc. of the base subset of EUs the respective cells e.g. cell cell cell cell of the subset of custom EU conversions and the respective conversion functions applicable to respective cells. The converter component can store the custom subset of EU conversions and or the associated mapping information in the table which can be stored in a data store.

For instance as depicted in the custom subset of EU conversions when the obtained data e.g. tag data is represented in the EU of inches the cell which is associated with cell relating to the EU of inches can specify that such data is to be converted from inches to the EU of centimeters when the obtained data e.g. tag data is represented in the EU of inches the cell can specify that such data is to be converted from inches to the EU of centimeters and the converter component can convert data represented in inches to a different data value corresponding to the EU of centimeters. The converter component also can apply respective conversion functions and mappings to convert data from the EU of feet to the EU of centimeters e.g. in relation to cell and cell convert data from the EU of millimeters to the EU of centimeters e.g. in relation to cell and cell and or convert data from the EU of meters to the EU of centimeters e.g. in relation to cell and cell . In accordance with various aspects since cell of the base subset of EUs relates to data represented in the EU of centimeters the cell of the custom subset of EU conversions can be left blank which can result in no conversion of data that is already represented in centimeters. A user such as a user associated with Entity A can use the UI component e.g. using an HMI to select the custom subset of EU conversions when desired.

There also can be other instances where a user can desire to have an EU displayed in a different language but does not want the data value numerically converted from being expressed using a first EU associated with the tag to a second EU associated with the different language. For example a user can switch the language on the UI component from English to German but can desire the EU to remain as pounds as it was in the subset of English EU conversions instead of kilograms as it typically would be in the subset of German EU conversions however wanting pounds to be expressed in the German language which is pfund .

In accordance with various aspects the converter component via the UI component can enable the user to convert the language of the information e.g. displayed EU associated with the data which is associated with a tag of an automation device from a first language to a second language without converting the value of the data or the EU. For instance the converter component can comprise a conversion table that contains conversion functions to translate information e.g. EU labels associated with the data from a first language to a second language but the cell that would be used for an EU conversion relating to the particular EU e.g. pounds can be left blank e.g. instead of inserting an EU conversion function that would convert the data value from pounds to kilograms wherein the blank EU conversion cell can indicate to the converter component that the EU for that particular type of data e.g. data relating to weight expressed in pounds is not to be converted from pounds so as a result the converter component can utilize the translated string for this EU in the selected language e.g. German while using the original EU string with regard to the EU. Additionally or alternatively the user could utilize the converter component via the UI component to create a conversion function which can be inserted into a conversion table wherein the conversion function can be structured to maintain the original EU for the particular type of data e.g. weight data expressed in pounds as it is presented by the tag and associated automation device but translate the information e.g. EU labels associated with the data into a different language than the original language associated with the tag.

The disclosed subject matter by employing global conversion tables that can be pre populated with a plurality of typical EUs and corresponding EU conversions as well as predefined language conversions and specified EU conversions relating to regional industry standards can more efficiently manage data conversions as compared to conventional systems and methods. The user already can have the typical EU conversions available to the user when operating the HMI associated with a control system and only would have to modify a conversion table to create or select EU conversions unique to the user or to append additional language types. For instance a user can select an EU EU conversion and or language from an enumerated list s of available e.g. predefined EUs EU conversions and or languages which can reduce or minimize errors relating to data conversions. The disclosed subject matter further can allow users to define EUs to be used for various different languages or regional industry standards. The disclosed subject matter can thereby save time and effort by users in using and applying data conversions associated with a control system as compared to the conventional techniques. Further the disclosed subject matter can reduce or minimize errors relating to data conversions associated with a control system.

It is to be appreciated and understood that while various components e.g. controller component UI component converter component of system are depicted as stand alone units the disclosed subject matter is not so limited as in accordance with various aspects and embodiments a component can be a stand alone unit can be contained within another component or can have portions distributed among several other components. In accordance with various embodiments and aspects the converter component can be a stand alone unit as depicted in can be contained within an HMI or another component can be contained within the controlled system e.g. the portion of the system that contains the controlled devices and or processes or can have portions of the converter component distributed among several other components and or a portion that is stand alone. In some implementations the converter component can be contained within the controlled system which also can include the controlled devices and or processes being controlled by the controller component and the converter component can perform EU conversions on data associated with the controlled system as more fully disclosed herein and can provide e.g. transmit present the converted data and or the unconverted raw data to another component such as a HMI and or UI component . In other implementations the converter component can be contained within a HMI and or UI component and the converter component can receive data associated with the controlled system from the controlled system components associated with the controlled system etc. and can perform EU conversions on such data as more fully disclosed herein and can provide e.g. transmit present the converted data and or the unconverted raw data for presentation e.g. display by the HMI and or UI component

Turning to depicted is a block diagram of an example system that can efficiently convert EUs for data associated with a device and or process in an industrial environment in accordance with various aspects and embodiments. The system can include a plurality of devices and or processes including for example device process and or device process which can be part of an industrial environment wherein the devices and or processes can be as more fully described herein. The system can include a plurality of tags including tag tag and tag that can be respectively associated with the plurality of devices and or processes wherein a tag can comprise or be associated with data relating to the device and or process e.g. operation data measurement data operational settings data etc. associated with the tag. While only a single tag is shown with regard to a particular device and or process e.g. the disclosed subject matter is not so limited as there can be virtually any desired number of tags associated with a particular device and or process as desired.

In another aspect the system can include a converter component that can be employed to convert data from a first type of EU to a second type of EU and or from a first language to a second language based at least in part on the user e.g. and associated user preferences associated with the devices and or processes wherein the user can be associated with the devices and or processes via a UI component . The converter component can be communicatively connected to the plurality of tags including tag tag and tag and or the plurality of devices and or processes including device process and or device process wherein the converter component can receive and analyze information including items of data respectively associated with the plurality of tags e.g. and can convert such items of data in accordance with respective conversion functions to generate converted items of data that can be presented to the user via the UI component .

In an aspect the converter component can comprise a plurality of conversion modules including for example conversion module conversion module and conversion module that can be employed to facilitate converting data in accordance with a respective plurality of conversion functions including for example conversion function conversion function and conversion function wherein the plurality of conversion functions can be part of the subset of conversion functions that can convert the items of data to present the items of data using the EUs e.g. which also can be determined based in part on a regional industry standard e.g. French industry standard German industry standard and or language desired by the user. The conversion module or conversion function employed with regard to a particular item of data can be determined based at least in part on user preferences EU and or language associated with the particular item of data in relation to the associated tag the EU and or language desired as an output for presentation to the user and or other predefined data conversion criteria. The respective conversion functions can be contained in or derived from one or more conversion tables such as Table and or Table .

For example user preferences associated with a particular user specifies that the user desires the items of data associated with the respective tags to be presented to the user via the UI component in French language with the EUs typically used by French industry standards or customs if tag is associated with a first item of data that is expressed English units of inches the converter component can employ conversion module using a conversion function that is derived from and or is referenced from Table and Table to convert the first item of data from the EU of inches to the EU of millimeters e.g. in accordance with Conversion in Table and the French standard of converting the EU of inches to the EU of millimeters in accordance with Table . Similarly if tag is associated with a second item of data that is expressed English units of feet the converter component can employ conversion module using a conversion function that is derived from and or is referenced from Table and Table to convert the second item of data from the EU of feet to the EU of centimeters e.g. in accordance with Conversion in Table and the French standard of converting the EU of feet to the EU of centimeters in accordance with Table . Similarly if tag is associated with a third item of data that is expressed English units of pounds the converter component can employ conversion module using a conversion function that is derived from and or is referenced from Table and Table to convert the third item of data from the EU of pounds to the EU of kilograms e.g. in accordance with Conversion in Table e.g. EU of kilograms EU of pounds 2.2046 and the French standard of converting the EU of pounds to the EU of kilograms in accordance with Table . The converter component can communicate the converted first second and third items of data to the UI component wherein the converted first second and third items of data can be presented to the user via the UI component e.g. via a display screen via an audio output etc. .

In one aspect the system can comprise a HMI that can include the converter component and UI component . In some implementations the HMI can be associated with e.g. part of a terminal while in other implementations the HMI can be used with another type of device having computational capabilities. The HMI can be associated with e.g. communicatively connected to the control system and can be used to facilitate monitoring and controlling the operations of the control system . The HMI can be employed to receive input data from a user or present control system related data to the user wherein the control system related data or other data can be converted by the converter component as more fully disclosed herein to present data to the user using a desired subset of EUs and or a desired language. It is to be appreciated and understood that in accordance with other embodiments a different HMI not shown or device not shown can be employed to facilitate configuring the HMI so that the HMI can facilitate monitoring and controlling the operations of the control system and or converting data and information e.g. code or other data for configuring the HMI can be stored on a computer readable medium and such information can be input to the HMI to facilitate using the HMI during run time to monitor and control operations of the control system and or convert data such as control system related data.

In an aspect the UI component can include and or provide one or more displays or monitors such as a cathode ray tube CRT monitor a Liquid Crystal Display LCD monitor a plasma monitor a light emitting diode LED monitor an electrochromic monitor or the like to facilitate displaying information and or items e.g. screens folders controls icons etc. to a user. The UI component also can employ an application control system interface component that can include various adapters connectors controls channels ports communication paths etc. to facilitate connecting the HMI to other components devices or systems such as control system and communication of information between the HMI and other components devices or systems such as control system . In an aspect the HMI also can be functionally coupled e.g. communicatively coupled with a server not shown that is part of a platform factory plant oil rig etc. that includes the control system . In another aspect an access network s can be geographically distributed and can include one or more of a wireline network or a wireless network that operate in accordance with one or more protocols for example packet based protocols such as internet protocol IP transmission control protocol TCP Ethernet Ethernet TCP IP Control and Information Protocol CIP also referred to as Ethernet IP X.25 Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM protocol frame based protocols such as frame relay and circuit switched protocols . In still another aspect if desired utilizing the access network s one or more remote access techniques can be employed to run e.g. operating managing utilizing or at least facilitate running the application. When the one or more remote access techniques are used to run the application the UI component can or may exist on the HMI but additionally or alternatively a remote thin client e.g. an application control type device or another HMI can be connected to the HMI via for example a wireline or wireless communication network e.g. an IP based network e.g. the Internet an intranet as more fully disclosed herein wherein the remote thin client or other HMI can be providing visualization user feedback or other desired functionality for using e.g. enabling a user to use remotely a menu or other item e.g. screen provided by the converter component and or presented by the UI component to facilitate selecting a subset of conversions converting data or presenting converted data to the user.

In another aspect the UI component can provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs command line interfaces and the like. For example a GUI e.g. touch screen GUI can be rendered that provides a user with a region or means to load import read etc. data and can include a region to present the results of such. These regions can comprise known text and or graphic regions comprising dialogue boxes static controls drop down menus list boxes pop up menus as edit controls combo boxes radio buttons check boxes push buttons and graphic boxes. In addition utilities to facilitate the presentation such as vertical and or horizontal scroll bars for navigation and toolbar buttons to determine whether a region will be viewable can be employed. In still another aspect the UI component can receive and or respond to a swipe gesture s e.g. via a touch screen GUI wherein a desired action e.g. unlocking of the HMI or associated display scrolling through a menu moving from one area of a displayed item such as a screen to another area of that item adjusting the size of a displayed item etc. . For instance a displayed menu or screen can be sized such that it is larger than the display screen of the UI component . The UI component can receive a particular swipe gesture via the touch screen GUI and in response the menu can be scrolled to display different menu items including items that were previously outside of the display area or a different portion of the screen can be displayed such as a region of the screen that was previously not viewable on the display prior to the swipe gesture. Alternatively or additionally a mouse can be used to click and drag on the screen to move the screen in the display so that the desired portion of the screen is displayed on the display or one or more buttons e.g. ctrl button an arrowed or directional button on a keyboard can be manipulated to move the screen in the display so that the desired portion of the screen is displayed on the display. In an aspect the user can interact with one or more of the components coupled to and or incorporated into a processor e.g. host processor of the processor component .

The user can also interact with the regions to select and provide information via various devices such as a mouse a roller ball a keypad a track pad a keyboard a pen and or voice activation for example. Typically a mechanism such as a push button or the enter key on the keyboard can be employed subsequent entering the information in order to initiate the search. However it is to be appreciated that the disclosed subject matter is not so limited. For example merely highlighting a check box can initiate information conveyance. In another example a command line interface can be employed. For example the command line interface can prompt e.g. via a text message on a display and an audio tone the user for information via providing a text message. The user can than provide suitable information such as alpha numeric input corresponding to an option provided in the interface prompt or an answer to a question posed in the prompt. It is to be appreciated that the command line interface can be employed in connection with a GUI HMI and or API. In addition the command line interface can be employed in connection with hardware e.g. video cards and or displays e.g. black and white and EGA with limited graphic support and or low bandwidth communication channels.

Further the UI component can include or can be associated with a scanner that can receive data e.g. authentication credentials user data etc. from other components e.g. host processor of system . The scanner can be a type whereby a device e.g. smart card containing the data can be swiped through the scanner which can read data associated with the device and or the scanner can be a wireless scanner e.g. RFID type scanner that can receive or read data associated with a device that contains the data when the device is within a predefined area near the wireless scanner such that the wireless scanner is able to communicate with the device to read or receive the data from the device.

In an aspect the processor component can operate in conjunction with the other components e.g. converter component UI component data store etc. of the HMI to facilitate performing the various functions of the HMI . The processor component can employ one or more processors microprocessors or controllers that can process data such as information relating to converting data tags maintaining security of the HMI applications control system and data communications monitoring and or controlling the control system using the applications controlling access rights controlling communication of data between the HMI and other components e.g. control system etc. etc. information relating to other operations of the system and or other information etc. to facilitate operation of the HMI as more fully disclosed herein and control data flow between the HMI and other components e.g. control system etc. associated with the HMI .

The HMI also can contain a data store that can store data structures e.g. user data code control data metadata code structure s e.g. modules objects hashes classes procedures or instructions information relating to converting data tag related data maintaining security of the HMI application control system and data communications monitoring and or controlling the control system controlling access rights controlling communication of data between the HMI and other components e.g. control system etc. to facilitate controlling operations associated with the HMI . In an aspect the processor component can be functionally coupled e.g. through a memory bus to the data store in order to store and retrieve information desired to operate and or confer functionality at least in part to the components of the HMI e.g. converter component UI component etc. and or substantially any other operational aspects of the HMI .

In still another aspect the control system can include a control platform that can be employed to facilitate monitoring and controlling operations in the control system . The control platform can comprise a processor component that can operate in conjunction with the other components e.g. controller component equipment application control system interface component etc. of the control system to facilitate performing the various functions of the control system . The processor component can employ one or more processors microprocessors or controllers that can process control code to facilitate performance of operations of the control system and data such as information relating to operating conditions or parameters of the control system alarm information information relating to communication of data between the control system and the HMI or other components etc. information relating to other operations of the control system and or other information etc. to facilitate operation of the control system as more fully disclosed herein and control data flow between the control system and other components e.g. HMI etc. associated with the control system .

In accordance with various embodiments the controller component in the control platform can comprise one or more controllers that can be embodied in a programmable automation controller PAC which can be a dedicated PLC a PC based controller or the like. The HMI can communicate with the controller and or other devices such as an input output I O module drives motion controllers process instruments sensors etc. in or associated with the control platform . Control code and control data structures in the control platform can represent control logic that can administer equipment and related processes functionally coupled to the control platform . In an aspect control platform is an industrial automation control environment and the control logic is automation control logic. To facilitate operation of the control system control logic can be developed during design time and or run time wherein the control logic can be implemented e.g. executed at run time. During design time e.g. in the design environment and or run time e.g. in a dynamic design environment that is engaged concurrently with a run time environment in an aspect instruction s data type s and metadata tag s that comprise control code can be produced and retained as part of configuration or composition of a control project or application for use in operations for the control system e.g. during run time .

In yet another aspect the equipment of the control system can comprise various components or devices e.g. conveyer belt material distributor mixer measurement component extraction component etc. that can perform associated process es e.g. industrial process es manufacturing process es measurement process es in a laboratory infrastructure development process es such as oil and gas prospecting and extraction etc. . The equipment generally can be specific to a production process and related market space s e.g. beverages edible goods textile goods oil and gas etc. and can include one or more sets of tools a group of machines numerous systems and related sub systems real estate and associated infrastructure and so forth.

For example the equipment can employ a plurality of devices and or processes. A device can be most any suitable device associated with an industrial automation environment such as but not limited to a physical device a software device an application a virtual device a PLC another type of controller device a furnace another HMI a computer a disparate controller a roller a station a welder a scanner a belt conveyor a pump a press a fan a heater a switch a sensor a conveyor e.g. conveyor belt an actuator material distributor mixer measurement component extraction component a portion of firmware a portion of an application a portion of a process a cooler a valve an electrical component a drain a photo eye a robot etc. A process can be most any suitable process associated with an industrial automation environment such as but not limited to a mixing process an extruding process an injection molding process a welding process a melting process a baking process a stirring process a measuring process oil and gas prospecting and extraction process other industrial process other manufacturing process infrastructure development process etc.

In still another aspect the control platform also can include an application control system interface component that can include various adapters connectors controls channels ports communication paths etc. to facilitate connecting the control system to other components systems or devices such as the HMI and equipment and communication of information e.g. control data or code to facilitate controlling operation of the control system information relating to operation of the control system etc. between the control system and other components systems or devices such as the HMI and equipment .

The control system also can contain a data store that can store data structures e.g. control code or data data relating to operations of the control system metadata etc. code structure s e.g. modules objects hashes classes procedures or instructions information relating to operating conditions or parameters of the control system alarm information information relating to communication of data between the control system and the HMI or other components etc. to facilitate controlling operations associated with the control system . In an aspect the processor component can be functionally coupled e.g. through a memory bus to the data store in order to store and retrieve information desired to operate and or confer functionality at least in part to the components of the control system e.g. equipment application control system interface component etc. and or substantially any other operational aspects of the control system .

In still another aspect the converter component can include a conversion management component that can be employed to control conversion of data associated with a control system from a first subset of EUs and or first language to a second subset of EUs and or second language in accordance with a subset of user preferences. The conversion management component can manage identification of a conversion module or conversion function to employ for a data conversion determine whether a language conversion is to be performed manage the generation of new conversion modules or new conversion functions manage generation of a mapping associated with a data conversion manage creation modification and or presentation of a conversion table or data e.g. conversion related information relating thereto etc.

In yet another aspect the converter component can contain an EU converter component that can be employed to facilitate converting data associated with a control system from a first subset of EUs to a second subset of EUs in accordance with a subset of user preferences. The converter component also can include a language converter component that can be employed to facilitate converting data associated with a control system from a first language to a second language in accordance with a subset of user preferences. The EU converter component and language converter component can operate in conjunction with a conversion module s that can be one or more conversion modules that employ one or more conversion functions or algorithms that can be utilized to convert EUs and or language associated with data relating to a control system.

In still another aspect the converter component can comprise a table component that can be utilized to create modify or maintain one or more tables that respectively can comprise subsets of conversions e.g. conversion functions wherein the one or more tables or information relating thereto can be referenced by and or presented to a user via a UI component to facilitate identifying desired data conversions selecting desired data conversions generating new data conversions etc. in accordance with user preferences. A table e.g. EU conversion table regional industry standard conversion table language conversion table etc. can be pre populated with a set of potentially desired conversions wherein the pre populated set of potentially desired conversions can be modified and or other conversions e.g. custom conversion functions can be created and added to the table if desired.

In an aspect the converter component can include a mapper component that can generate modify and or maintain a mapping of types of data or tags to conversion functions a mapping of data conversions to items contained in one or more tables mapping of authentication credentials or user identifiers to a subset of conversions or other desired mappings in accordance with user preferences of respective users and the predefined conversion criteria. In still another aspect the converter component can include an identification component that can be employed to identify information including a tag type of automation device a user identifier authentication credentials data type conversion type conversion function language type etc. to facilitate determining what type of conversion to perform in relation to an item of data associated with a control system.

In another aspect the converter component also can comprise a selector component that can enable a user to select and set user preferences select conversion modules or conversion functions for EU conversions or language conversions etc. The converter component also can contain a conversion generator component that can be used to create or modify a conversion module conversion function subset of conversions etc.

In still another aspect the converter component can include an authenticator component that can be employed to authenticate or verify users attempting to access a HMI and or an application such as a conversion application associated with the converter component associated with the control system. The authenticator component can receive authentication credentials e.g. username password personal identification number PIN radio frequency identification RFID information smart card information and or biometric authentication credentials e.g. fingerprint information information relating to facial recognition information relating to an eye scan etc. etc. from a user via the UI component and or interface component .

In another aspect the authentication credentials can be provided to the UI component or interface component by a user using a touch screen interface keyboard or keypad mouse biometric interface magnetic stripe reader RFID reader bar code reader e.g. scanner smart card reader or other desired interface of the UI component or interface component . In an embodiment the user can have an identification ID card e.g. employee ID card RFID tag and or smart card etc. that can comprise the user s authentication credentials or a portion thereof e.g. stored on the ID card .

Upon receiving authentication credentials from a user the authentication component can compare the received authentication credentials to stored valid authentication credentials e.g. stored in the data store to determine whether the received authentication credentials are valid and if so to facilitate identifying the user associated with the authentication credentials identifying a subset of access rights that can be granted to an authenticated user to access the HMI and or terminal data and or the control system identifying a subset of user preferences associated with the user and or identifying a subset of conversions to be employed with regard to data including control system related data to convert the data and present the converted data to the user. If the received authentication credentials match any of the stored valid authentication credentials the received authentication credentials can be identified as valid and the user can be deemed authenticated. If the received authentication credentials do not match any of the stored valid authentication credentials the authenticator component can determine that the received authentication credentials are not valid and the authentication component can deny the user access to the HMI and or terminal application or data. In such instance the authentication component can facilitate prompting the user to attempt to provide valid authentication credentials up to a predefined maximum number of access attempts wherein if the maximum number of attempts is reached without valid authentication credentials being presented further attempts to access the HMI terminal or application can be denied for at least a predefined amount of time and or a notification of the authentication failure can be communicated to a desired entity e.g. plant manager supervisor security person etc. .

In yet another aspect the converter component can comprise a menu component that can provide one or more menus to a user via the UI component to facilitate selection of conversion functions to be utilized to convert data associated with a control system. For instance the menu component can provide a menu comprising available EUs a menu containing available conversion functions and or a menu comprising available language translations to a user via the UI component to facilitate selection creation or modification of conversion functions. In an embodiment a menu can be a drop down menu that can be presented in response to selection of a cell in a conversion table e.g. the menu can drop down from the selected cell or can be a drop down menu that drops down in a region near a tool bar in response to making a selection in a tool bar. The user can select a desired EU conversion function language regional industry standard or other items presented in a menu to engage select apply view etc. the item.

In an aspect the converter component can comprise a processor component that can operate in conjunction with the other components e.g. communicator component interface component conversion management component etc. of the converter component to facilitate performing the various functions of the converter component . The processor component can employ one or more processors microprocessors or controllers that can process data such as information relating to user preferences predefined conversion criteria authentication credentials and or user identifier information converting data in relation to EUs and or language creating maintaining or modifying tables mappings conversion modules conversion functions etc. EU conversions language conversions application s maintaining security of the HMI terminal application s control system and data communications controlling communication of data between the converter component and other components e.g. UI component control system etc. etc. information relating to other operations of the converter component and or other information etc. to facilitate operation of the converter component as more fully disclosed herein and control data flow between the converter component and other components e.g. UI component control system etc. associated with the converter component .

The converter component also can contain a data store that can store data structures e.g. user data code control data metadata code structure s e.g. modules objects hashes classes procedures or instructions information relating to user preferences predefined conversion criteria authentication credentials and or user identifier information converting data in relation to EUs and or language creating maintaining or modifying tables mappings conversion modules conversion functions etc. EU conversions language conversions application s maintaining security of the HMI terminal application s control system and data communications controlling communication of data between the converter component and other components e.g. UI component control system etc. etc. to facilitate controlling operations associated with the converter component . In an aspect the processor component can be functionally coupled e.g. through a memory bus to the data store in order to store and retrieve information desired to operate and or confer functionality at least in part to the components of the converter component e.g. communicator component interface component conversion management component etc. and or substantially any other operational aspects of the converter component .

The aforementioned systems and or devices have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It should be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or sub components specified therein some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components. Sub components could also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components. Further yet one or more components and or sub components may be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality. The components may also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein for the sake of brevity but known by those of skill in the art.

In view of the example systems described above example methods that can be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter can be better appreciated with reference to flowcharts in . For purposes of simplicity of explanation various methods disclosed herein are presented and described as a series of acts however it is to be understood and appreciated that the subject disclosure is not limited by the order of acts as some acts may occur in different order and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. It is noted that not all illustrated acts may be required to implement a described method in accordance with the subject specification. In addition for example one or more methods disclosed herein could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover interaction diagram s or call flow s represent several of the example methods disclosed herein in accordance with the described subject matter particularly in instances when disparate entities or functional elements enact disparate portions of one or more of the several methods. Furthermore two or more of the disclosed example methods can be implemented in combination to accomplish one or more features or advantages described in the subject disclosure.

At the selection of the at least one subset of conversion functions can be saved or stored as part of the subset of user preferences. At the subset of user preferences can be associated with a user identifier or authentication credentials associated with the user. In an aspect a mapping can be created between the user preferences and the user identifier or authentication credentials to facilitate identifying which subset s of conversion functions to use to convert the items of data to generate corresponding converted items of data for presentation to the user via the UI component.

At a subset of items of data can be received wherein the respective items of data in the subset of items of data have respective data values corresponding to respective EUs. At the subset of conversion functions can be applied to the subset of items of data. At respective data values of the respective items of data can be converted to respective different data values corresponding to respective different EUs to generate a subset of converted items of data in accordance with the subset of conversion functions. At the converted items of data can be presented for example to the user via the UI component.

At a subset of items of data can be received wherein the respective items of data in the subset of items of data comprise respective information expressed in a first language. At the subset of conversion functions can be applied to the subset of items of data. At respective information of the respective items of data can be converted from the first language to the second language to generate a subset of converted items of data in accordance with the subset of conversion functions. At the converted items of data can be presented for example to the user via the UI component.

It is to be appreciated and understood that as desired the method and method can be combined and or a hybrid method comprising method and method can be employed to facilitate converting items of data associated with a control system for desired presenting of converted items of data to a user via a UI component.

At a second column of the table comprising a second subset of cells can be populated with a subset of conversion functions wherein respective conversion functions can be correlated to respective EUs of the first subset of EUs to produce desired data value conversions to convert data values expressed using the EUs in the first subset of cells to converted data values expressed in different EUs in accordance with the respective conversion functions. The different EUs can be based at least in part on the type of EU desired by the user the language to be employed when presenting converted items of data and or a regional industry standard relating to EUs. For instance if an item of data such as an item of data received from a sensor is presented by the sensor using the EU of pounds but it is desired that the data value of the item of data be presented in kilograms a conversion function which converts a data value of the item of data expressed in the EU of pounds to a different data value expressed in the EU of kilograms can be inserted into the corresponding cell of the second subset of cells that correlates to the cell in the first subset of cells that contains the EU of pounds. As desired one or more additional subsets of cells of one or more additional columns of the table can be populated e.g. pre populated or modified in accordance with act .

At the table can be stored. For instance the table as pre populated or modified can be stored in a data store associated with the converter component. As desired the method also can be used to modify add or remove an EU s and a corresponding conversion function s 

At a corresponding first cell in a second column of a conversion table can be populated with a conversion function corresponding to a second EU wherein the corresponding first cell is correlated e.g. linked to the first cell in the first column. For instance a conversion function can be inserted into the corresponding first cell of the second column wherein the conversion function when applied to the data value expressed using the first EU can yield a result having a second data value expressing the data using the second EU. At the conversion table comprising the new data conversion can be stored for example in a data store. The conversion table can be employed when desired to convert data in accordance with the new data conversion in accordance with the predefined conversion criteria.

One or more methods disclosed throughout the subject specification and annexed drawings are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such method s to computers or chipsets with processing capability ies for execution and thus implementation by a processor or for storage in a memory. In an aspect one or more processors that enact method s described herein can be employed to execute computer executable code instructions retained in a memory or any computer readable or machine readable medium to implement method s described herein the code instructions when executed by the one or more processor implement or carry out the various acts in the method s described herein. The computer executable code instructions provide a computer executable or machine executable framework to enact or implement the method s described herein.

Referring now to there is illustrated a block diagram of a computer operable to execute the disclosed architecture. In order to provide additional context for various aspects thereof and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented. While the description above is in the general context of computer executable instructions that may run on one or more computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the disclosed subject matter also can be implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which can be operatively coupled to one or more associated devices.

The illustrated aspects of the disclosed subject matter also can be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

A computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media can comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital video disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer.

A computer and computing devices in general typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media and or communications media which two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows. Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

With reference again to the example environment for implementing various aspects includes a computer the computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multi processor architectures may also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that may further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS is stored in a non volatile memory such as ROM EPROM EEPROM which BIOS contains the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up. The RAM can also include a high speed RAM such as static RAM for caching data.

The computer further includes an internal hard disk drive HDD e.g. EIDE SATA which internal hard disk drive may also be configured for external use in a suitable chassis e.g. external DDD a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD e.g. to read from or write to a removable diskette and an optical disk drive e.g. reading a CD ROM disk or to read from or write to other high capacity optical media such as the DVD . The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The interface for external drive implementations includes at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE 1394 interface technologies. Interface enables functional coupling of computer to a removable memory such as a USB memory device or a SD memory card. Other external drive connection technologies are within contemplation of the disclosed subject matter.

The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For the computer the drives and media accommodate the storage of any data in a suitable digital format. Although the description of computer readable media above refers to a HDD a removable magnetic diskette and a removable optical media such as a CD or DVD it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of media which are readable by a computer such as zip drives magnetic cassettes flash memory cards cartridges and the like may also be used in the example operating environment and further that any such media may contain computer executable instructions for performing the methods of the disclosed subject matter.

A number of program modules can be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . All or portions of the operating system applications modules and or data can also be cached in the RAM . It is to be appreciated that the disclosed subject matter can be implemented with various commercially available operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wired wireless input devices e.g. a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone an IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen touch screen or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port an IEEE 1394 serial port a game port a USB port an IR interface etc.

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers printers etc.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wired and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wired wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks e.g. a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which may connect to a global communications network e.g. the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the local network through a wired and or wireless communication network interface or adapter . The adaptor may facilitate wired or wireless communication to the LAN which may also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless adaptor .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or is connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wired or wireless device is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are illustrative and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer is operable to communicate with any wireless devices or entities operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. a printer scanner desktop and or portable computer portable data assistant communications satellite any piece of equipment or location associated with a wirelessly detectable tag e.g. a kiosk news stand restroom and telephone. This includes at least Wi Fi and Bluetooth wireless technologies. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices.

Wi Fi or Wireless Fidelity allows connection to the Internet from a couch at home a bed in a hotel room or a conference room at work without wires. Wi Fi is a wireless technology similar to that used in a cell phone that enables such devices e.g. computers to send and receive data indoors and out anywhere within the range of a base station. Wi Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.11 a b g etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wired networks which use IEEE 802.3 or Ethernet . Wi Fi networks operate in the unlicensed 2.4 3.6 and 5 GHz radio bands at up to an 11 Mbps 802.11a 54 Mbps 802.11b or 802.11b or 150 Mbps 802.11n data rate for example or with products that contain both bands dual band so the networks can provide real world performance similar to the basic 10BaseT wired Ethernet networks used in many offices.

Referring now to there is illustrated a schematic block diagram of an example computing environment in accordance with another aspect. The system includes one or more client s . The client s can be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The client s can house cookie s and or associated contextual information by employing the disclosed subject matter for example.

The system also includes one or more server s . The server s can also be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The servers can house threads to perform transformations by employing the invention for example. One possible communication between a client and a server can be in the form of a data packet adapted to be transmitted between two or more computer processes. The data packet may include a cookie and or associated contextual information for example. The system includes a communication framework e.g. a global communication network such as the Internet that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s .

Communications can be facilitated via a wired including optical fiber and or wireless technology. The client s are operatively connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s e.g. cookie s or associated contextual information . Similarly the server s are operatively connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers .

In the subject specification and annexed drawings terms such as repository store data store data storage and substantially any term s that convey other information storage component s relevant to operation and functionality of a functional element or component described herein refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. The memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. In addition the memory components described herein can be statically affixed screwed bolted soldered etc. or removably affixed. Further the memory components can include computer readable or machine readable storage media.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of further illustration and not limitation RAM can be available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to comprising these and any other suitable types of memory.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device e.g. a PAC discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Additionally at least one processor may comprise one or more modules operable to perform one or more of the steps and or actions described above.

Further the steps or acts of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An example storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal or HMI. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal or HMI. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

In one or more aspects the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection may be termed a computer readable medium. For example if software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

What has been described above includes examples of the disclosed subject matter. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components and or methods but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations are possible. Accordingly the disclosed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

