---

title: Tracing and asynchronous communication network and routing method
abstract: A system and method for asynchronous conversation routing and tracing that allows a client and agent to connect and reconnect to one another over a discontinuous engagement. The system and method facilitate this by allowing multiple methods of communication between the client and agent, including live communications and out-of-band communications. All communications between a client and agent are tied to a client case accessible by the agent, and the client case can include context and environmental data to further assist the agent or to route a customer service call to an appropriate agent. At any time, the client or agent can send out-of-band messages to one another to advance the customer service process, or the client or agent can seek to re-establish live communication with each other. This provides the client with a consistent point of contact not easily supportable with phone based call centers where support is single-threaded.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09641684&OS=09641684&RS=09641684
owner: Verint Americas Inc.
number: 09641684
owner_city: Alpharetta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20161222
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 820 001 entitled Tracing and Asynchronous Communication Network and Routing Method filed Aug. 6 2015 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 157 691 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 9 172 690 entitled Apparatus and Methods for Multi Mode Asynchronous Communication filed Jan. 17 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 795 868 now abandoned entitled Apparatus and Methods for Multi Mode Asynchronous Communication filed Mar. 12 2013 which claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 636 923 entitled Methods of Multi Mode Asynchronous Communication filed on Apr. 23 2012 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments described herein relate generally to voice and data communications and more particularly to apparatus and methods for multi mode asynchronous communication routing ACR and tracing.

In today s society advances in technology allow individuals to use multiple modes of communication from a home or office and while on the go. Individuals can communicate using voice text messaging instant message e mail or the like. Accordingly infrastructure exists to support these modes of communication yet the infrastructure is often designed to support an uninterrupted conversation through a single mode of communication. Thus it is difficult to have a unified multi mode communication that spans a series of interactions that might be required to complete a transaction.

In addition the advances in technology have enabled some individuals to perform multiple tasks simultaneously. As a result a cultural shift has begun toward a faster paced efficient and client controlled customer self service. However many enterprises offer a customer service system that is unreliable synchronous and or not sufficiently customer friendly. For example in some instances an individual may be interrupted while in the progress of interacting with a customer support organization or system e.g. an interactive voice response IVR system or by other obligations thereby negating the value of at least a portion of the progress made. Furthermore most customer service systems require a single mode of communication be used to fully complete a specific task.

In traditional customer service a client calls in and is routed to an agent based on a series of questions often repeating those questions. In some cases the client has to remember or write down the case number so that the agent can look it up. In many cases a call is ended and then resumed at a later time when the client calls back in to customer service. The problem is the unlikeliness of returning clients to have access to the originating agent. In this situation when resuming a case or help ticket the client connects to a new agent that has to look up the case repeat the questions to the client and learn the specifics of the case. This is frustrating for the client as they have to repeat the problem they are having. This can also be costly for the call center due to the new agent having to spend extra time repeating questions and becoming familiar with the case in order to pick up where the first agent left off. Phone based support such as this is single threaded limiting the ability for clients and agents to maintain congruency through the lifecycle of engagement.

Thus a need exists for improved methods and systems of multi mode asynchronous communication having asynchronous conversation routing and tracing.

The ACR intends to eliminate these problems through smart management of what are called agent work lists and via a tracing mechanism that tracks the client s interactions from the point they enter the platform until they leave the platform whether due to agent resolution expiration or client or agent cancelation of the case. The ACR and work list facilitate a multi threaded model for agent resolution of client cases. Furthermore the ACR and work list facilitate multitasking by an agent. Utilizing chat an agent can often carry on more than one conversation at a time. This is advantageous however it also dictates the necessity to manage workflow across multiple engagements and across discontinuous messaging events.

When the client opens up the platform tracing and conversation services begin recording all transactions and messages. If the client requests live agent support then the client is assigned to an agent or in some embodiments can select an agent. After getting paired with an agent the client and agent can converse in live chat and then go about their business until the agent has new information has a request for further information or has a resolution for the client. Likewise the client can re engage the agent at any time if they have new information have come up with a resolution on their own or are looking for updates. The ACR has been designed to support a concierge like work flow between an agent and a client. Constant live communication is not required during the resolution of a case. The lifecycle for engagement assumes that the client and agent relationship remains consistent e.g. same agent throughout the engagement lifecycle however this is not always realistic so the ACR also supports active automated transfers in the event that the agent has the maximum number of live engagements and the client is not willing to wait for re engagement.

After the client has had an initial chat with the agent and the case has been initialized the client is free to resume life while the agent handles the case for the client. Depending on the complexity of the case the agent and client may reconnect in a live chat channel several more times or not at all. The client and agent may also exchange out of band information or messages. Out of band messages refer to the asynchronous messages sent by a client or agent when the client and agent are not connected and in a live chat channel. Essential to reconnection requests and out of band messages is the agent work list which tracks the case ownership between the client and agent through discontinuous cycles of engagement. The key benefit supported by this process is a consistent point of contact for the client which is not easily supportable with phone based call centers where support is single threaded. The likelihood that returning clients will get the same agent in a phone based call center is very slim.

As used in this specification the term communication mode generally refers to a method of communication between a first electronic device and a second electronic device. For example a communication mode can be one of e mail text messages e.g. short message service SMS messages instant messages optical pattern transmissions e.g. a high capacity color barcode a QR code a two dimensional barcode a one dimensional barcode a black light pattern etc. RF pattern transmissions a mobile device application a website a personal computer PC application an interactive advertisement e.g. a Flash advertisement on a website an interactive television ITV application e.g. client uses their TV remote to select and or enter process ID TCP IP transmissions interactive voice response e.g. via touch tones and or voice recognition and the like. Furthermore the presented examples of communication modes are not an exhaustive list of suitable communication modes. Thus the embodiments described herein are not limited to the use of the aforementioned communication modes and can use any suitable communication mode.

As used in this specification the term asynchronous generally refers to events occurring at different time periods. In addition asynchronous communication as described herein relates to sending receiving and or accessing a first set of data at a first time period and sending receiving and or accessing subsequent sets of data at later time periods independent of the previous time periods.

As used herein the term customer service generally refers to a good or service provided to a customer. For example customer service can refer to processing reservations shopping e.g. online grocery shopping retail shopping etc. and or the like. Furthermore customer service can refer to a support function e.g. technical support sales support and or the like . As used herein customer service systems can employ live persons interactive voice recognition online interface e.g. webpage and or the like.

As shown in the host device can be in communication with an electronic device A via a first network N an electronic device B via a second network N and an electronic device C via a third network N. In some instances the electronic devices A B and C can be associated with a first client a second client and a third client respectively. In such instances the host device can communicate with the electronic devices A B and C substantially simultaneously. Furthermore the first network N the second network N and or the third network N can be similar networks or different networks. For example in some instances the electronic devices A B and C can communicate with the host device via a public switched network PSTN . In other instances the electronic devices A B and C can communicate with the host device via a first communication mode a second communication mode and a third communication mode respectively wherein each communication mode is different from the other communication modes.

In some instances the electronic devices A B and C can be associated with a single client. In such instances the host device can asynchronously communicate with the electronic device A the electronic device B or the electronic device C. For example in some embodiments a client can manipulate the electronic device A e.g. a home PC to communicate with the host device via a first network N and during a first time period. The first network N can be configured to facilitate e.g. provide infrastructure to support a first communication mode e.g. via an internet service provider ISP and the internet .

The client can discontinue the communication between the electronic device A and the host device and manipulate the electronic device B e.g. a mobile device such as a smart phone to communicate with the host device via a second network N and during a second time period after the first time period. With the electronic device B associated with the client the host device can continue the communication e.g. a customer service process such as for example booking a flight from the point at which the communication ended with the electronic device A. In some instances the electronic device B can communicate with the host device via the first communication mode e.g. the second network N is the same as the first network N . In other instances the electronic device B can communicate with the host device via a second communication mode e.g. SMS different from the first communication mode.

In a similar manner the client can discontinue the communication between the electronic device B and the host device and manipulate the electronic device C e.g. a work computer to communicate with the host device via a third network N and during a third time period after the second time period. With the electronic device C associated with the client the host device can continue the communication e.g. a customer service process such as for example booking a flight from the point at which the communication ended with the electronic device B. In some embodiments the electronic device C can communicate with the host device via the first communication mode e.g. via an ISP and the internet or the second communication mode e.g. SMS . In other embodiments the electronic device C can communicate with the host device via a third communication mode e.g. e mail different from the first communication mode and or the second communication mode. In this manner the client can asynchronously manipulate the electronic devices A B and C to communicate with the host device using any suitable communication mode to for example book an airline flight. Furthermore as described above the host device can store an identifier associated with for example the process steps of the customer service process. In this manner the customer service process is a linear process e.g. the progress made during the first time period is stored and accessed during the second time period and the progress made during the second time is stored and accessed during the third time period .

In some embodiments the electronic device also referred to herein as client device can communicate with the host device and the network N via intermediate networks and or alternate networks. Such intermediate networks and or alternate networks can be of a same type and or a different type of network as the network N. As such in some embodiments the electronic device can send data to and or receive data from the host device using multiple communication modes defined above that may or may not be transmitted to the host device using a common network. For example the electronic device can be a mobile telephone e.g. smart phone connected to the host device via a cellular network and the Internet e.g. network N .

The electronic device includes at least a processor a memory and a display . The memory can be for example a random access memory RAM a memory buffer a hard drive a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electronically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or any other suitable electronic storage medium. In some embodiments the memory of the electronic device stores instructions to cause the processor to execute modules processes and or functions associated with using a personal computer application mobile application an internet web browser and or the like. Furthermore the memory stores instructions to cause the processor to send signal information to the display .

The processor of the client device can be any suitable processing device configured to run and or execute a set of instructions or code. For example the processor can be a general purpose processor a central processing unit CPU an accelerated processing unit APU and or the like. The processor can be configured to run and or execute a set of instructions or code stored in the memory associated with using a personal computer application a mobile application an internet web browser telephonic or cellular communication and or the like. More specifically in some instances the processor can execute a set of instructions or code stored in the memory associated with an asynchronous communication with for example the host device .

The display of the client device can be any suitable display configured to provide a user interface to the client device . For example the display can be a cathode ray tube CRT monitor a liquid crystal display LCD monitor a light emitting diode LED monitor and or the like. The display can be configured to provide the user interface for a personal computer application mobile application internet web browser and or the like. In such embodiments the display can be configured to graphically represent any suitable portion of a customer service system and or process e.g. a webpage contact information an instant message interface an e mail interface and or the like . In some embodiments the display can be and or include a touch screen.

While not shown in in some embodiments the electronic device can include one or more network interface devices e.g. a network interface card configured to connect the electronic device to the network N. For example the network interface device can include a Wifi and or cellular transceiver.

The host device can be any type of device configured to send and or receive data over the network N from one or more client device . In some embodiments the host device can be configured to function as for example a server device e.g. a web server device a network management device and or so forth. The host device includes at least a processor a memory and a database . The memory can be for example a RAM a memory buffer a hard drive a database an EPROM an EEPROM a ROM or any other suitable electronic storage medium. In some instances the memory of the host device includes a set of instructions used to perform a user defined task. In such instances for example the host device is configured to communicate with multiple electronic devices using one or more suitable communication modes. In some instances the memory stores instructions to cause the processor to execute modules processes and or functions associated with a customer service. For example processor can be configured to execute modules services and processes associated with an asynchronous conversation routing platform .

The processor of the host device can be any suitable processor such as for example a general purpose processor a CPU an APU a network processor a front end processor and or the like. Thus the processor can perform a set of instructions stored in the memory . For example the processor can be configured to update the database with client information received from an electronic device e.g. the electronic device via one or more communication modes as further described herein.

The database of the host device can be any suitable database such as for example a relational database an object database an object relational database a hierarchical database a network database an entity relationship database and or the like. In some embodiments the database can be stored in for example the memory . While shown in as being included in the host device in other embodiments the database can be operably coupled to the host device . For example the host device can be in communication with the database over any suitable network e.g. the network N . In such embodiments the database can be included in or stored by a network attached storage device NAS . In such embodiments the NAS and or the database can communicate with the host device over any suitable network can be any suitable network e.g. network N .

The database can store and or maintain data associated with client information e.g. client preferences client communications client status client requests and or the like . More specifically and as described in further detail herein the database stores and or maintains a relationship between a client identifier and various methods of identifying that client. For example the database can store a relationship between a client identifier and that client s e mail address telephone number login name instant message identifier a communication device identifier e.g. a mobile phone identifier an internet protocol IP address a media access control MAC address etc. and or the like. Accordingly if the host device receives a text message and or a voice message from a telephone number the host device can query and or search the database using the telephone number for the client identifier with which that telephone number is associated. Similarly if the host device receives an e mail message from an e mail address or instant text message from a client having a text message identifier the host device can query and or search the database using the e mail address or the text message identifier respectively for the client identifier with which that e mail address or text message identifier is associated. Thus the host device can correlate information and or data received from a client via multiple communication modes with a single client account associated with that client.

In addition the database can store an identifier e.g. a status identifier associated with any step in a customer service process. For example in some instances the host device can be in communication with the electronic device to provide a client a customer service associated with booking an airline flight. In such instances the host device can store in the database an identifier associated with the completion of a process step e.g. login flight request travel dates flight confirmation and or the like . Thus if the customer service process is interrupted at a process step e.g. the client ends the communication between the electronic device and the host device the host device can be configured to resume the customer service at the process step when the host device is again placed in communication with the electronic device . Similarly stated the database can store any suitable client information such that the host device can provide an asynchronous customer service as further described herein.

The authentication service can be configured to query a database e.g. the database for a client identifier and or account number. In some embodiments the authentication service can query the database using a telephone number an e mail address an instant message identifier a social network account username and or password a private third party authentication identifier e.g. client logs in with the third party and or any other communication identifier e.g. a mobile phone identifier a MAC address etc. . For example if the communication service receives an SMS message from a mobile device the authentication service can query the database to determine which client and or account that telephone number is associated. Similarly if the communication service receives an e mail from an e mail address or an instant message from an instant messaging account having an instant message username the authentication service can query the database to determine with which client and or account the e mail address or instant message username is associated. In some instances the communication service can receive a communication identifier and password combination. In such instances the authentication service can query the database to determine if the password is associated with the communication identifier thereby authenticating the presence of an authorized client associated with an electronic device. In the example embodiment shown in the processes of the authentication service described above can be executed by an authentication module a client user module and a session module . An authentication service API can also be provided. In an example embodiment of the session module the session module can execute instructions associated with determining what session a client identifier conversation identifier and or trace identifier is associated.

The routing service includes a set of instructions executed by the processor associated with routing a client to an appropriate agent. As shown in the embodiment of the set of instructions can contain multiple modules configured to be executed by the routing service including a pending work queue module agent work queue module workflow work list module case generation module and agent module . The routing service can further include a routing API . For example the routing service can include instructions associated with querying data collected by the conversation service and trace service utilizing that data to match the client with an agent having the appropriate qualifications for example an agent s qualifications can include customer service department experience or specific expertise in handling a type of case.

The work flow module includes a set of instructions executed by the processor associated with work flow management. In one embodiment the work flow module can be separate from the routing service as in . In another embodiment the work flow module can be a module in the routing service as in . The work flow module can include instructions to cause the processor to store in the database a status identifier associated with any step in a customer service process. Furthermore the work flow module can maintain at least an agent s work list live chat queue live chat channels and any other work flow management lists queues and processes which will be described in more detail later.

The conversation service includes a set of instructions executed by the processor associated with storing and grouping all client agent communications. For example in some instances a client associated with a communication mode and or an electronic device can communicate with the host device via a communication mode and or an electronic device not associated the client. In such instances the conversation service can receive a signal associated with an authorization to update the database and thereby associate the client with the communication mode and or the electronic device and store the message or information sent. In this manner the host device can associate any suitable number of electronic devices and or communication modes with a given client as well maintain a complete record of any and all communications sent by and received from the client. The conversation service can be understood to include at least a conversation module and or a conversation API as shown in the example embodiment of .

The trace service includes a set of instructions executed by the processor associated with gathering context data from the application or device being used by the client. For example the trace service can include instructions cause the processor to connect to a web application that is configured to aggregate all trace data associated with a client s application or device. In this manner the trace service collects the available context data and makes it available for other modules such as the routing service to use as necessary. The trace service can be understood to include at least a trace API and or a trace module .

The local sensors can include any of an accelerometer GPS microphone camera or any other sensors located on the electronic device. External sensors include any sensor that can connect to the electronic device by any means known in the art including wifi Bluetooth and Internet of Things IoT .

Processor of client device can be configured to execute specific modules. The modules can be for example hardware modules software modules stored in the memory and executed in the processor and or any combination thereof. For example as shown in the processor includes and or executes a communication module an application module and a web browser module . The communication module includes a set of instructions executed by the processor associated with communicating with a network N and more specifically the host device . As described above the network N can be any network such as for example a PSTN a LAN a WAN a virtual network a cellular network and or the internet.

The application module includes a set of instructions executed by the processor associated with using a customer service application of the present invention. The application includes a client interface displaying all available options to the client and connects to the host device through network N via communication module . The client interface allows the client to access the asynchronous conversation routing ACR platform and connect to the host device when agent support is desired. The application can be a mobile application PC application Mac OS X application or the like. It should be understood that the client interface can be accessed via the application or in an alternative embodiment via a web browser.

The web browser module includes a set of instructions executed by the processor associated with using a web browser. The web browser can be any known web browser including for example Google Chrome Microsoft Internet Explorer Apple Safari Mozilla Firefox and any other available browser. The client interface can be accessed by the web browser which allows the client to access the ACR platform and connect to the host device when agent support is desired.

Agent device includes at least a processor a memory and a display . The memory can be for example a RAM a memory buffer a hard drive a ROM an EPROM an EEPROM or any other suitable electronic storage medium. In some embodiments the memory of the agent device stores instructions to cause the processor to execute modules processes and or functions associated with using a personal computer application mobile application an internet web browser and or the like. Furthermore the memory stores instructions to cause the processor to send signal information to the display .

The processor of the agent device can be any suitable processing device configured to run and or execute a set of instructions or code. For example the processor can be a general purpose processor a CPU an APU and or the like. The processor can be configured to run and or execute a set of instructions or code stored in the memory associated with using a personal computer application a mobile application an internet web browser telephonic or cellular communication and or the like. More specifically in some instances the processor can execute a set of instructions or code stored in the memory associated with an asynchronous communication with for example the host device .

The display of the agent device can be any suitable display configured to provide a user interface to the agent device . For example the display can be a CRT monitor an LCD monitor an LED monitor and or the like. The display can be configured to provide the user interface for a personal computer application mobile application internet web browser and or the like. In such embodiments the display can be configured to graphically represent any suitable portion of a customer service system and or process e.g. a webpage contact information an instant message interface an e mail interface and or the like . In some embodiments the display can be and or include a touch screen.

Processor of the agent device can be configured to execute specific services or modules. The services or modules can be for example hardware modules software modules stored in the memory and executed in the processor and or any combination thereof. For example as shown in the processor includes and or executes a communications module an application module and a web browser module . The communication module includes a set of instructions executed by the processor associated with communicating with a network N and more specifically the host device . As described above the network N can be any network such as for example a PSTN a LAN a WAN a virtual network a cellular network and or the internet.

The application module includes a set of instructions executed by the processor associated with an agent using a customer service application of the present invention. The application includes an agent interface displaying all available options to the agent and connects to the host device through network N via communication module . The application provides an agent with access to the ACR platform .

The web browser module includes a set of instructions executed by the processor associated with using a web browser. The web browser can be any known web browser including for example Google Chrome Microsoft Internet Explorer Apple Safari Mozilla Firefox and any other available browser. The agent interface can be accessed by the web browser and allows the agent to access ACR platform and connect to the host device when agent support is desired.

While not shown in in some embodiments the client device and agent device can include one or more network interface devices e.g. a network interface card configured to connect the client device to the network N and the agent device to the network N. For example the network interface device can include a Wifi and or cellular transceiver.

In one embodiment the system and processes of the present invention can be broken up into two stages that are not mutually exclusive an automation stage and an engagement stage. The automation stage includes processes occurring prior to a client s request for support from a live agent. As shown in the example embodiment in the process starts with a client entering the ACR platform via web mobile or other electronic device without any agent intervention. The ACR platform encompasses the aforementioned services executed on the host device application modules and executed on client devices and agent devices and any web services that may be leveraged to provide additional functionality. The ACR platform is accessed by the client via a client interface that is accessible through a web browser or an application on the client device. The ACR platform is accessed by an agent via an agent interface that is accessible through a web browser or an application on the agent device. The system authenticates the client login and or client device and then checks to see if a session exists . If a session does exist then the client is returned to the existing session . If no session exists then a new session is created . Creating a new session also creates a new session ID. Anything that the user does in the system is governed by the system ID and all subsequent interactions with the platform require a session ID to be sent. If no session ID is sent or an invalid session ID is sent then the service will return an error code. Next a conversation service instance and a trace service instance are created and tied to the session ID. The conversation service instance can have a conversation ID the trace service instance can have a trace ID and the client can have a client ID. The session ID can be tied to or include all of these IDs. All conversation service data and trace service data subsequently obtained are identified under the session ID. The client now has an active session.

The automation stage defined above and in particular the conversation service instance and trace service instance creates a rich history of the client interaction with the application. The context is actionable by smart algorithms which can provide smart automation or routing and is viewable by an agent when and if the client opts for live support.

The engagement stage second stage includes activity occurring during and after the transition from the automation stage to a request for live agent support. In one example embodiment the client makes a direct request for live agent support. In another embodiment the trace service can make a suggestion for live agent support based on one or more of usage data external sensor data and local sensor data collected by the trace service and the client can choose to accept or decline the suggestion.

In one example embodiment the tracing service after analyzing the context data determines there is a need to communicate with an agent and prompts the client asking if they would like live support. This prompt can be based on any of the data or context aggregated by the trace service for example time spent on a page or on a form local sensor data or external sensor data. Alternatively the client can make a request for live agent support.

The agent work list organizes and displays all presently open client cases that are assigned to that agent which includes any corresponding links to the trace service data conversation service data and case generation data . The open client cases represent customer service requests made by a client that the agent is working on and that have not yet been resolved. In one example embodiment an agent work list can be preconfigured to allow up to a certain number of open client cases. For example the system can be preconfigured to allow up to ten open cases in an agent work list . In another embodiment the agent can configure the maximum number of open cases. In yet another embodiment there is no maximum number of open cases. In yet another embodiment the agent can manually choose to not accept new cases.

The agent live chat queue allows the agent to have a live connection with the client. The agent can also have a configurable number of live chat engagements at one time each with its own lifecycle of connect and reconnects with the client. In one example embodiment the live chat queue can be preconfigured to allow up to a maximum engagement count for example the live chat queue can be preconfigured to allow a maximum engagement count of three live chat channels. In another embodiment the agent can set the maximum engagement count. In yet another embodiment the agent can allow the maximum engagement count to be exceeded or reserve a live chat channel for a client even while the live chat queue is at the maximum engagement count. This gives the system flexibility and allows for emergency feedback when or if necessary. If a client requests to connect to the agent in a live chat channel but the agent does not have a live chat channel open then the system can present several options including placing the client in a live chat queue or presenting the client with the option to connect to a new agent.

The agent and client interact within the initiating live chat session that corresponds to a second communication made at a second time. The live chat can include a conversation over the phone instant messaging or the like. At the conclusion of the live chat the client can disconnect while the agent works on the case or the agent may disconnect from the client notifying the client that the agent will be working for a resolution and that the client will be notified if new information is required or there is a resolution. This disconnect removes the client from the agent s live chat queue but not the agent s work list .

When a new agent is found the client and client case is placed in the new agent s work list and live chat queue . The new agent has access to the conversation history and any other pertinent trace data conversation data and or case generation data that is available and communicates with the client. Since the new agent has access to all transactions conversations and information that the previous agent had access to the new agent is able to quickly review the materials and get up to speed on the client s case.

In an alternative embodiment if the agent live queue is full agent is at the maximum engagement count an exception could be made for returning clients allowing them to connect immediately to the agent and allowing the agent to go over the max simultaneous engagements allowed to the agent. In another alternative embodiment if the client has supplied additional information for the agent the client could send to the agent an out of band message even if not connected in a live chat. An agent interface asset for example an information symbol or i indicating that new information has been supplied by the client would trigger the agent s attention to the additional information allowing the agent to see it and handle it at a later time. Similarly the agent can send the client an out of band message at any time.

In yet another embodiment the agent live chat channel reservation process can be entirely manual where the agent reserves the channel reaches out with a message or notification and if the client does not respond the agent manually ends the chat. In this embodiment there is no ringing period or hold period that can time out. When the agent manually ends the chat it removes the client from the agent s live chat queue .

At any time the client or agent can send out of band messages to each other. In the user interface out of band messages received show up with an i or information symbol that indicates to the client or agent that a new message is available. These messages are sent normally while the agent or client is effectively offline and not in a live chat connection. The content of the out of band messages can include requests general information status messages or any other relevant information. This allows the engagement to continue and the client case to progress without live chat. Out of band messages are sent directly to the conversation service.

Also at the top of the Agent Desktop is a selection menu that allows the agent to select work list mode or available mode. At any time the agent can set their status in the ACR service to work list mode. In this mode the agent no longer accepts new cases and is likely handling many cases throughout the lifecycle of engagement with multiple clients. The work list mode allows the agent to focus on their current case load. The work list mode also helps to control the potential for case bloat. If an agent is working on ten cases of varying complexity switching to work list mode allows them to multitask across only these cases. The work list mode effectively allows the agent to catch up and excludes them from new case routing. Only existing client cases in their work list are allowed to be routed to them on client live chat requests. shows the agent in work list mode and thus no new clients will be routed to the agent.

Any number of additional options can be present at the top of the Agent Desktop including for example icons or links for help home settings save progress exit transfer or any other relevant functions.

The Agent Desktop also presents the agent work list along with various sorting filtering and searching options including options to view all work list items new work list items or waiting work list items as shown in the example embodiment of . The work list can be configured to show various information associated with a client case including for example one or more of the customer the ticket number the subject the status and the time the case was last updated. The status icons can be presented in different colors according to the status. In one example embodiment the status icon is blue when the status is new and yellow when the status is waiting. However it is to be understood that any color scheme differentiating the statuses can be used.

Clicking on the client s chat bubble the client case in the work list takes the agent to the case and engagement screen shown in the example embodiment of . The dialog window on the right shows that client Jason has sent the agent a new message. The dialog window can also present the agent with options to end chat escalate and transfer. Additionally the chat field for entering text can also allow for a document to be attached and sent to the client.

As shown in the example embodiment of choosing to end the chat with Jason returns the agent to the work list dashboard and removes Jason s chat bubble from the live chat queue . shows two clients in the live chat queue both of which are currently online. In an example embodiment allowing for a maximum engagement count of three one more channel is available and thus a returning client wishing to chat with the agent can be connected automatically. Additionally when one or more channel is available the agent can select a client case ticket in the work list dashboard and reserve a live chat channel for that client. This will hold the live chat channel for the client until the system detects inactivity for a pre set or configurable ringing time or holding time and suggests to the agent to close the chat. shows an example embodiment of a client inactivity alert . It is understood that the text of the alert is not limited to the specific text shown in but can be any text that conveys to the agent that the client has been inactive for a certain period of time. In another example embodiment the agent can reserve a live chat channel for a client even if the agent is already at the maximum engagement count. In yet another example embodiment the agent can manually reserve a live chat channel and manually close the channel if the client does not reconnect. In this embodiment there is no ringing period or holding period.

If all available live chat channels are in use for example three live chat channels are in use or reserved for clients and the maximum engagement count is set for three then attempting to chat with an additional client will result in the message shown in . It is understood that text of the message is not limited to the specific text shown in but can be any text that conveys to the agent that the maximum engagements have been reached. In other embodiments the maximum engagement count can be set for another number for example two four or five. In yet another embodiment the agent can reserve a live chat channel even while at the maximum engagement count. In yet another embodiment there is no maximum engagement count.

The trace service is used to capture the context of the client. The trace service has a wide range of possible uses and context data that it can collect. In one example embodiment the trace service is a name value pair storage service where the trace service can be used to capture the context of a user while utilizing a commerce application. For example if the client is browsing in a department on a website the department identifier is sent to the trace service. Subsequently if the client is browsing for an appliance e.g. vacuum cleaner the product type is also sent to the trace service. The combination of department product is used to route the client to an agent assigned to that department. As previously defined the trace service would automatically populate the ACR for agent selection at the initiation of live chat. The data sent to the trace service and subsequently to be used in the routing process may look like the following 

The JavaScript Object Notation above is connected to the user session and user ID . The data contained within defines where the trace was recorded. It defines what department the client is in. It defines the product being viewed. It also contains page usage statistics. In a representative embodiment duration is how long the client has spent on the product page. The trace service uses this to determine when and if a suggestion should be triggered for live support. The frequency of transmission to the trace service is dependent on the application used. The trace service can communicate with client devices and other sensors through the trace service API. The data acquired by the trace service via the trace service API can be stored as a trace record in the database of the host device.

In another representative embodiment the trace service might also capture a series of process steps in a booking application i.e. for booking a flight . Each form that is posted from an airline reservation can be sent to the trace service. In a representative example the base itinerary is captured. In a following step the airline and detailed flight schedule is captured. Each form is captured by the trace service. If at any time the client wishes to speak with an agent the client can get routed to an appropriate agent based on the trace service data captured and the data can also be shared with the assigned agent who can then help complete the booking. In an example embodiment if the client leaves the application and resumes on another device the data is retrieved and the client can continue where they left off.

In another representative embodiment the trace service can be used to capture medical and fitness data from devices attached to the electronic devices is use by the client. The explosion of connected consumer and professional grade medical devices represents a significant opportunity for the trace service in the healthcare sector. In a representative embodiment a client of a medical application could capture a range of health and fitness data that can be utilized by a healthcare coach or medical professional across a range of uses. For example a mobile application can capture blood pressure and heart rate from a connected device capable of measuring blood pressure and heart rate.

In yet another representative embodiment the trace service can aggregate context from the various sensors on the electronic device in use by the client and use a web service to process the data. For example motion data can be captured from the device and sent to a web service which determines the location of the client and the weather at the client location. Utilizing the environmental context provided by the onboard sensors and web services the trace service can make suggestions to the client and inform the agent in a live chat of the current environmental conditions in the client location. The context data allows the trace service and agent applications to assess the location and environment the client are in. Geospatial information can be used for a broad set of applications and in general provides intelligence about the human activity on earth when coupled with various web services e.g. google maps API .

In yet another representative embodiment the trace service can also consume environment data directly through external personal devices or web service aggregators. Connect Sense Inc. provides such a platform providing a range of environmental sensor including temperature humidity water motion security light and power. Sensors like those found in the Connect Sense suite provide powerful context data around the client s living or industrial work space. In customer support applications these are valuable for service applications and residential monitoring applications. In one representative embodiment a temperature sensor that periodically sends data to the trace service could be used to monitor house temperature for elderly citizens. The trace service coupled with communications could trigger a notification to an identified family member or service organization.

It should be known to one of ordinary skill in the art that the above described process embodiments can be implemented on any appropriate system including the above described system embodiments. Additionally in some embodiments a third party application using an application programming interface API can be used by a client to interact with e.g. view update add to remove from edit and or otherwise communicate with the host device and or specific customer service system. For example a social networking site can use an API to access a portion of a client s information and to present the portion in the social networking site. Such an API provides integration of a customer service into other systems programs applications websites and or the like.

