---

title: Associating received contact information with user profiles stored by a social networking system
abstract: A social networking system receives contact information from a social networking system user. The received contact information is stored and associated with a user profile in the social networking system including information matching at least a portion of the stored content information. This increases the information associated with the user profile. Subsequently received content information is compared to user profiles and stored contact information associated with one or more user profiles. User profiles including information matching at least a portion of the subsequently received content information or associated with stored contact information matching at least a portion of the subsequently received content information are identified as potential connections for the user providing the subsequently received contact information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09535944&OS=09535944&RS=09535944
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09535944
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160421
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 730 758 filed Dec. 28 2012 titled Associating Received Contact Information with User Profiles Stored by a Social Networking System which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention relates generally to social networking systems and more specifically to managing contact information associated with social networking system users.

Social network systems or social utilities that track and enable online connections between users including people businesses and other entities have become increasingly prevalent. In particular social networking systems allow their users to associate themselves with other users to create a web of connections among the social networking system users. For example social networking system users may establish connections with each other based on one or more common attributes in user profiles such as geographic location employer job type age musical preferences interests online games or other attributes. Social networking system users connected to each other may exchange content with each other.

Some social networking systems also include tools identifying other users with which a user may establish a connection or identifying additional persons for a user to invite to establish an account with the social networking system. Many of these tools allow a social networking system user to import contact information describing the social networking system user s contacts outside of the social networking system. For example a social networking system user imports an address book or other e mail contact list. The social networking system compares characteristics of the imported contact list to user profile information maintained for other social networking system users. Social networking system users with user profile information matching a portion of the contact information and not connected to the user are identified to the user for establishing a connection.

However many social networking system users have incomplete user profile information or out of date user profile information. Additionally some social networking system users store multiple pieces of information corresponding to different portions of their user profiles making it difficult to identify profile information matching imported content information. For example a user profile may include multiple e mail addresses for a social networking system user making it difficult to identify a current e mail address for matching to imported contact information. Hence conventional social networking systems may fail to identify additional users for connecting to a user based on contact information imported by the user.

A social networking system allows its users to provide a contact list used for communicating via systems external to the social networking system. The contact list includes one or more contact entries that each include contact information. For example a user imports an electronic mail address book to the social networking system identifying different contacts each having an email address a name and or any other suitable information. In addition to identifying additional users with which the user may establish a connection using the imported contact information the social networking system identifies a user profile including at least some information matching at least a portion of the contact information in a contact entry and associates the contact information with the user profile. This allows the social networking system to augment user profile information with additional information for identifying user profiles for connecting to a user.

The social networking system compares contact information for contact entries received from an importing user to user profiles maintained by the social networking system. The imported contact entries and their associated contact information may be stored by the social networking system. For example the contact entries are stored in a user profile associated with the importing user. User profiles including information matching at least a portion of the contact information for a contact entry are identified and presented to the importing user with a recommendation for the importing user to establish a connection with one or more users associated with the identified user profiles. Additionally the social networking system associates a stored contact entry with a user profile including information matching contact information for the stored contact entry.

When additional contact entries each including contact information are received from an additional user of the social networking system the contact information of an additional contact entry is compared to user profiles to identify matching information and is also compared to stored contact entries associated with one or more user profiles. Hence received contact information is associated with user profiles having matching information allowing subsequent comparisons of additional contact information to information in both user profiles and previously imported contact information associated with a user profile. If information in a user profile or in a stored contact entry associated with the user profile match a portion of the information in an additional contact entry the social networking system may provide a message to the additional user suggesting establishment of a connection with a user associated with the user profile. Hence the social networking system updates information associated with user profiles as users provide contact lists to the social networking system increasing the amount of information used to suggest connections.

The Figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

A social networking system offers its users the ability to communicate and interact with other users of the system. In use users join the social networking system and then add connections to a number of other users to which they desire to be connected. To aid users in establishing connections to other users the social networking system may receive a contact list from a user and compare information from the contact list with user profiles maintained by the social networking system. The social networking system identifies user profiles including information matching information in the received contact list and suggests that the user from which the contact list was received form a connection with one or more users associated with the identified user profiles.

However user profiles may include incomplete or outdated information limiting the social networking system s ability to identify other social networking system users for connecting to an importing user. To more accurately identify users the social networking system stores contact entries received from an importing user and associates a stored contact entry with a user profile including information matching information in the contact entry. Subsequently received contact entries are compared to user profiles and stored contact entries associated with the user profile to identify matching information. If information in a user profile or in a stored contact entry associated with the user profile matches a received contact entry a user associated with the user profile is identified for establishing a connection. Associating received contact entries with user profiles supplements user profiles with received content information allowing identification of more potential connections to users and increasing user interaction with the social networking system.

A client device is a computing devices capable of receiving user input as well as transmitting and or receiving data via the network . In one embodiment a client device is a conventional computer system such as a desktop or laptop computer. In another embodiment a client device may be a device having computer functionality such as a personal digital assistant PDA mobile telephone smart phone or similar device. A client device is configured to communicate via the network . In one embodiment a client device executes an application allowing a user of the client device to interact with the social networking system . For example a client device executes a browser application to enable interaction between the client device and the social networking system via the network . In another embodiment a client device interacts with the social networking system through an application programming interface API that runs on the native operating system of the client device such as IOS or ANDROID .

The client devices are configured to communicate via the network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using both wired and wireless communication systems. In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. Thus the network may include links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G code division multiple access CDMA digital subscriber line DSL etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the network may include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP User Datagram Protocol UDP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and file transfer protocol FTP . Data exchanged over the network may be represented using technologies and or formats including hypertext markup language HTML or extensible markup language XML . In addition all or some of links can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS and Internet Protocol security IPsec .

A third party website may be coupled to the network for communicating with the social networking system which is further described below in conjunction with . In one embodiment the third party website is an electronic mail server or another messaging server receiving messages from users and routing the received messages to other users for presentation via client devices . The third party website may maintain accounts for various users and directs messages to various user accounts to communicate messages or other content to the users.

Each user of the social networking system is associated with a user profile which is stored in the user profile store . A user profile includes declarative information about the user that was explicitly shared by the user and may also include profile information inferred by the social networking system . In one embodiment a user profile includes multiple data fields each data field describing one or more attributes of the corresponding user of the social networking system . The user profile information stored in user profile store describes the users of the social networking system . Examples of information stored in a user profile include biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history gender hobbies or preferences location and the like. A user profile may also store other information provided by the user for example images or videos. In certain embodiments images of users may be tagged with identification information of users of the social networking system displayed in an image. A user profile in the user profile store may also maintain references to actions by the corresponding user performed on content items in the content store and stored in the action log .

Additionally a user profile includes information for communicating with a corresponding user outside of the social networking system . For example the user profile includes one or more electronic mail email addresses for communicating content to the user through an email server or other third party website external to the social networking system . As another example a user profile includes a telephone number or other contact information for interacting with a corresponding user through a communication channel outside of the social networking system .

While user profiles in the user profile store are frequently associated with individuals allowing people to interact with each other via the social networking system user profiles may also be stored for entities such as businesses or organizations. This allows an entity to establish a presence on the social networking system for connecting and exchanging content with other social networking system users. The entity may post information about itself about its products or provide other information to users of the social networking system using a brand page associated with the entity s user profile. Other users of the social networking system may connect to the brand page to receive information posted to the brand page or to receive information from the brand page. A user profile associated with the brand page may include information about the entity itself providing users with background or informational data about the entity.

The content store stores objects representing various types of content. Examples of content represented by an object include a page post a status update a photo a video a link a shared content item a gaming application achievement a check in event at a local business a brand page or any other type of content. Objects may be created by users of the social networking system such as status updates photos tagged by users to be associated with other objects in the social networking system events groups or applications. In some embodiments objects are received from third party applications which may be external to the social networking system . Content items represent single pieces of content that are represented as objects in the social networking system . Users of the social networking system are encouraged to communicate with each other by posting text and content items of various types of media through various communication channels increasing the interaction of users with each other and increasing the frequency with which users interact within the social networking system.

The action logger receives communications about user actions on and or off the social networking system populating the action log with information about user actions. Such actions may include for example adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user uploading an image reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user attending an event posted by another user among others. In some embodiments the action logger identifies interaction between a social networking system user and a brand page within the social networking system which communicates targeting criteria associated with content on the brand page to a content selector to customize content from the brand page. In addition a number of actions described in connection with other objects are directed at particular users so these actions are associated with those users as well. These actions are stored in the action log .

The action log may be used by the social networking system to track user actions on the social networking system as well as external websites that communicate information to the social networking system . Users may interact with various objects on the social networking system including commenting on posts sharing links and checking in to physical locations via a mobile device accessing content items or other interactions. Information describing these actions is stored in the action log . Additional examples of interactions with objects on the social networking system included in the action log include commenting on a photo album communications between users becoming a fan of a musician adding an event to a calendar joining a groups becoming a fan of a brand page creating an event authorizing an application using an application and engaging in a transaction. Additionally the action log records a user s interactions with advertisements on the social networking system as well as other applications operating on the social networking system . In some embodiments data from the action log is used to infer interests or preferences of the user augmenting the interests included in the user profile and allowing a more complete understanding of user preferences.

The action log may also store user actions taken on external websites such as third party website . For example an e commerce website that primarily sells sporting equipment at bargain prices may recognize a user of a social networking system through social plug ins that enable the e commerce website to identify the user of the social networking system . Because users of the social networking system are uniquely identifiable e commerce websites such as this sporting equipment retailer may use the information about these users as they visit their websites. The action log records data about these users including webpage viewing histories advertisements that were engaged purchases made and other patterns from shopping and buying.

In one embodiment an edge store stores the information describing connections between users and other objects on the social networking system as edges. Some edges may be defined by users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example users may generate edges with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Other edges are generated when users interact with objects in the social networking system such as expressing interest in a page on the social networking system sharing a link with other users of the social networking system and commenting on posts made by other users of the social networking system .

The edge store stores information describing characteristics of edges such as affinity scores for objects interests and other users. Affinity scores may be computed by the social networking system over time to approximate a user s affinity for an object interest and other users in the social networking system based on the actions performed by the user. A user s affinity may be computed by the social networking system over time to approximate a user s affinity for an object interest and other users in the social networking system based on the actions performed by the user. Computation of affinity is further described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 978 265 filed on Dec. 23 2010 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Multiple interactions between a user and a specific object may be stored in one edge object in the edge store in one embodiment. In some embodiments connections between users may be stored in the user profile store or the user profile store may access the edge store to determine connections between users.

The connection suggestion module receives contact entries from an importing user of the social networking system and identifies connections to other users of the social networking system based on the received contact entries. A contact entry includes contact information used by a system external to the social networking system to communicate data between users. For example contact information is an email address or a phone number. The connection suggestion module compares contact information in a contact entry to user profiles in the user profile store and identifies user profiles including information matching at least a portion of the contact information. For example the connection suggestion module identifies user profiles including an email address matching an email address specified by a contact entry. The connection suggestion module identifies a user profile matching a contact entry to the importing user and may provide the importing user with a message to establish a connection with the identified user profile.

To increase user interaction with the social networking system the connection suggestion module also supplements existing information in a user profile with contact information from received contact entries including contact information matching a portion of the information in the user profile. For example a user profile may specify a single email address that matches an email address included in a received contact entry. The contact entry may include additional email addresses or contact information not stored in the user profile so the connection suggestion module stores the contact entry and associates it with the user profile including the matching email address. In one embodiment the contact entry is stored in the user profile store and associated with the matching user profile however contact information from the contact entry is not presented or accessible to other users. This augments the existing information stored in the user profile with information from the received contact information.

After associating contact information from a stored contact entry with a user profile contact information from subsequently received contact entries is compared to information in the user profile and the associated contact information. Hence if information in either the user profile or the associated stored content entry matches a portion of the contact information from a subsequently received contact entry the connection suggestion module identifies that the user profile matches the subsequently received contact entry. Association of contact entries with user profiles is further described below in conjunction with .

The web server links the social networking system via the network to the one or more client devices as well as to the one or more third party websites . The web server serves web pages as well as other web related content such as JAVA FLASH XML and so forth. The web server may provide the functionality of receiving and routing messages between the social networking system and the client device for example instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS short message service messages or messages sent using any other suitable messaging technique. A user may send a request to the web server to upload information for example images or videos that are stored in the content store . Additionally the web server may provide API functionality to send data directly to native client device operating systems such as IOS ANDROID WEBOS or RIM.

In one embodiment the connection suggestion module stores contact entries from the contact list in the user profile store . For example the contact entries are stored in the user profile associated with the importing user. In one embodiment the stored contact entries are not accessible to other users of the social networking system . Alternatively the contact entries may be stored in the content store or in any suitable location.

The connection suggestion module retrieves user profiles associated with social networking system users and compares information in the user profiles with contact information in the stored contact entries. If a user profile includes information matching at least a portion of the contact information in a stored contact entry the connection suggestion module associates the stored contact entry with the user profile including the matching portion of information. For example a stored contact entry is associated with a user profile including an email address matching an email address in the contact entry. Hence the connection suggestion module supplements information in a user profile with additional information from received contact entries. Rather than rely on a user to update its corresponding user profile current or modified user information may be obtained as contact information associated with the user as received allowing the social networking system to maintain more complete and or current information about the user.

Additionally the connection suggestion module uses the stored contact entry associated with the user profile when an additional content entry is received . For example the importing user provides one or more additional content entries to the connection suggestion module . Alternatively a different user provides an additional content entry to the connection suggestion module . The connection suggestion module compares contact information in the additional contact entry to user profiles and stored contact entries associated with one or more of the user profiles. If the contact information in the additional contact entry matches a portion of the information in a user profile or matches a portion of the information in a stored contact entry associated with the user profile the content selection module selects the user profile and transmits a message to the importing user to establish a connection with a user associated with the selected user profile. In one embodiment if the additional contact entry does not match a user profile and does not match stored contact entries associated with user profiles the content selection module transmits the importing user a message suggesting that the importing user invite the contact entity to establish an account with the social networking system .

For example a user profile including an email address is associated with a stored contact entry including an alternate email address. An additional contact entry is received identifying the alternate email address. Because the alternate email address is different than the email address in the user profile conventional techniques would not select the user profile. However because the additional contact entry is compared to the user profile and to the stored contact entry including the alternate email address which matches the information in the contact entry the user profile is selected. Thus even if the corresponding user does not update the user profile to include the alternate email address the association between stored contact entry and user profile allows the alternate email address to be used by the social networking system when recommending connections to establish.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.

Some embodiments of the invention may utilize algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

