---

title: Independent targeted sponsored content management system and method
abstract: A system may include a database configured with individual partitions, one of the partitions corresponding to a sponsored content campaign of a social network. The system may further include multiple servers each communicatively coupled to the database, and each configured to implement a campaign having a campaign termination criterion. Each of the servers may include a processor configured to track sponsored content event data received from a user device based on the campaign and transmit the event data to the database and terminate the campaign based on a comparison of the event data as received from a partition of the database corresponding to the campaign and an estimation of event data not received from the database. The database may be configured to store the event data as received from the servers in the partition corresponding to the campaign upon receipt of the event data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09530147&OS=09530147&RS=09530147
owner: LinkedIn Corporation
number: 09530147
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160203
---
This application is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 141 314 filed Dec. 26 2013 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 860 393 filed Jul. 31 2013 and to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 860 371 filed Jul. 31 2013 which applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The subject matter disclosed herein generally relates to a system for independently targeting sponsored content.

Contemporary social networks display content from a variety of sources. Member profiles user messages and comments information from groups and companies advertisements and the like can combine to create the overall content that constitutes at least some of the content that can be displayed on a web page to users of the social network. Some of the content can be generated organically by the users of the social network and the activities of the members of the social network. So called organic content may not in some examples include content such as imported content or system generated content. Some of the content such as targeted messages slideware whitepapers and advertisements can be sponsored by the creators or providers can be displayed to users based for instance on the creator or provider paying a fee to the provider of the social network to have that content displayed on the social network.

Example methods and systems are directed to the generation of targeted sponsored content on a social network. Examples merely typify possible variations. Unless explicitly stated otherwise components and functions are optional and may be combined or subdivided and operations may vary in sequence or be combined or subdivided. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of example embodiments. It will be evident to one skilled in the art however that the present subject matter may be practiced without these specific details.

Sponsored content may advantageously targeted to individual users of the social network based a sponsored content campaign established and paid for by a sponsor of the content such as a company organization or individual. The campaign may direct sponsored content based on a profile of the user incorporating various characteristics of the user such as the user s social network profile the user s behavior or activities and the user s social graph such as people companies and groups that the user has connected with follows or joins within the social network the potential fragmentation of information within the social network can limit the ability to target individual users with sponsored content effectively. Moreover if one subsystem presents organically generated content to a user at the same or close time another subsystem presents the same or essentially the same content to the user the sponsored content may be unnecessarily duplicative. Unnecessary duplication may harm user satisfaction generally as well as the satisfaction of the entity sponsoring the content.

However certain social networks may incorporate a number of users or resources that are impractical to operate on a single server. Many social networks incorporate multiple servers spread out over potentially large geographic areas in order to provide the social network. The dispersed nature of the social network infrastructure may support a large network but may make coordination of various services such as a sponsored content campaign more challenging than they may be if the services were centrally located.

A social network system has been created that can provide sponsored content campaigns among a variety of servers or data centers. Each server can be configured to implement the campaign according to campaign criteria including a campaign termination criterion. Each server can provide the campaign for users of the social network according to the campaign criteria but without necessarily utilizing constant interaction between the servers or common social network resource. As a result the social network infrastructure may be dispersed but provide sponsored content campaigns.

Within the context of a social network disclosed herein content can be defined as relatively complex domain specific media that can utilize server resources to be created and maintained. An activity in contrast can describe an event such as when content is created shared or otherwise interacted with on the social network. An activity can include a summary of content and a link to the content.

Each social network server can be communicatively coupled to the network and locally with respect to one another. Each server can be an individual server or a cluster of servers and in various examples the servers can be consolidated on a single platform. The servers can be configured to perform activities related to serving the social network such as storing social network information processing social network information according to scripts and software applications transmitting information to present social network information to users of the social network and receive information from users of the social network. The server can include one or more electronic data storage devices such as a hard drive and can include a processor. The social network server can store information related to members of the social network. For instance for an individual person the member s information can include name age gender profession location activities likes and dislikes and so forth. For an organization such as a company the information can include name offered products for sale available job postings organizational interests forthcoming activities and the like.

The servers variously include components and platforms suitable to server the social network. One or more of the servers includes a unified social content platform a processor a targeted social content platform a database and a transmitter configured to transmit data to user devices via the network . The unified social content platform can store and access social network information on the electronic storage devices can reside on the electronic storage devices and can utilize or be provided by the processor. The targeted sponsored content platform can provision content according to a sponsored content campaign. The database can store information related to the social network such as to the provision of the sponsored content campaign.

While the servers are illustrated as incorporating particular elements it is to be recognized and understood that system may incorporate servers having a variety of elements . In various examples the unified social content platform is provided on multiple servers or each server or may be provided on a server that does not incorporate for instance the targeted sponsored content platform or the database . Similarly the database may be located in multiple servers or may be located in server separate to that of an instance of the targeted sponsored content platform.

In various examples the electronic data storage can be or can include an electronic data index in addition to durable storage of data files either for long term storage for dormant files or for files actively utilized by the unified social content platform . In various examples the electronic data index can be utilized for searching functions such as to identify files without necessarily accessing the files during the search. In various examples the electronic data index is non durable data storage in that the index merely includes information relating to files rather than the files themselves.

The social network server can store information in the electronic data storage related to users of the social network such as in the form of user characteristics corresponding to individual users of the social network. For instance for an individual user the user s characteristics can include one or profile data points including for instance name age gender profession prior work history or experience educational achievement location citizenship status leisure activities likes and dislikes and so forth. The user s characteristics can further include behavior or activities within and without the social network as well as the user s social graph. For an organization such as a company the information can include name offered products for sale available job postings organizational interests forthcoming activities and the like. For a particular available job posting the job posting can include a job profile that includes one or more job characteristics such as for instance area of expertise prior experience pay grade residency or immigration status and the like.

User characteristics described above can generally include user profile characteristics in that they are typically defined by a single discrete label such as a number a place or a binary status. Characteristics included in user behavior such as can be identified based on user activity within the social network generally. For instance a user who engages in job searches such as by entering job keywords into a search engine either of the social network or independent of the social network can be deemed to have characteristics such as currently seeking a job and job characteristics that the user is seeking such as job field pay grade location and the like. Additional user behavior or activities such as messages to job recruiters job applications filled out or submitted and messages to particular companies can also be incorporated. As such user actions both within and without the social network can be utilized to determine user characteristics such as user behavior.

Activity and behavioral data can be obtained by monitoring and tracking the interactions that a user has with various applications services and or content that are provided by or integrated or otherwise associated with the social network service. For example a social network service may provide any number and variety of applications and or services with which a member interacts. Similarly a variety of third party applications and services may leverage various aspects of the social network service for example via one or more application programming interfaces APIs . A few examples of such applications or services include search engine applications and services content sharing and recommendation applications e.g. photos videos music hyperlinks slideshow presentations articles etc. job posting and job recommendation applications and services calendar management applications and services contact management and address book applications and services candidate recruiting applications and services travel and itinerary planning applications and services and many more.

Analysis of social graph data may signal a member s interest in various job profiles. For instance in some examples by analyzing certain social graph data characteristics can be identified that are suggestive of active job seeking activity. For example members who are actively seeking particular jobs may be more likely to follow other members of the social network service or establish new connections with other members in a very concentrated or shortened time span particularly other members who are job recruiters for particular job types or who are associated with a job recruiting function. Similarly members who are actively seeking jobs of a particular type may be more likely to follow certain companies at which there are open job positions matching the member s skills or having the same job title as may be desired by the member. Members who are actively seeking particular job types may be more likely to join certain online groups particularly those groups that exist primarily to aid job seekers. Accordingly by analyzing social graph data to identify the entities with which a member is establishing associations or connections and the timing and frequency of the activity the job seeking intentions of a member may be inferred and used in the derivation of a metric representing the member s job seeking propensity.

In the illustrated example the server includes social network applications such as can interface with provide and obtain social network information from the user devices and other sources. The server further includes a developer application configured to allow administrators or developers of the social network to register new criteria for the unified social content platform to provide information on the social network as disclosed herein. The developer application can include or access a user interface and can access the publish API and the query API . The developer application can allow a developer to create custom social network applications while also adhering to a substantially uniform aesthetic and front end rendering. The uniform social content platform can publish developed applications to the social network substantially immediately.

The unified social content platform can include a data model that includes standard fields that can be applied across social network applications and activities. The data model can include standard fields such as a destination and a visibility of an application. The data model can further include a data field for user defined fields such as can be provided by a developer via the developer application or by a user of the social network.

The publishing API can be called by an application to publish activity to the unified social content platform . Published applications can be queried by at least the unified social content platform and identified to a user such as via the developer application . Upon being published the applications can also be sent to a pipeline to be provisioned to the user devices via the social network.

The processor can manage the pipeline such as with dedicated pipeline software. The processor can attach data onto activity items that are provided such as by applications to the user devices via the social network. Such data can include summaries of users such as users acting on the applications and objects in an activity. In an example if the actor is a member of the social network then the actor s name profile picture or profile picture uniform resource locator URL and or other data regarding the member of the social network. In an example if the object of the action is a webpage a summary of the web page can be attached. The processor can also be configured such as within its pipelining functionality to store an activity to a long term electronic storage provide a search term to a search index in electronic storage tally an activity index count and send an event notification to offline storage.

The unified social content platform can further include a summarizer module . The summarizer module can identify a body of an activity item. The body can include a subject verb and or object of the activity item. The body can be provided for searching of activities with the body providing certain commonly sought data points for typical searches. The summarizer module can be included in a language translated or translatable format for searching in various languages. The summarizer module can annotate the body with the location of entities so that the entities can be highlighted and or hyperlinked by a renderer. Annotations can identify the text that is annotated by start and end offset indices.

The body of the activity items generated by the unified social content platform can be common among all applications. The user devices can be configured to render activities transmitted from the unified social content platform without having to be separately configured for different applications. The content summary can accompany the body in an activity. The body and the content summary can be utilized to create consistent content displays and developer applications. The body can be annotated with semantic regions allowing users and developers to tailor the display of bodies based on the context. In an example if a particular company is mentioned in a body the annotation can indicate to a user device to generate and or display a profile of the company.

The summarizer module can in certain examples create a body for display such as upon having identified the body. The summarizer module can decorate an activity view such as on a user device with locale dependent views of entities such as members companies and so forth. The summarizer module can render a template according to context and dedicated helper functions. Upon rendering a fully formed body string can be displayed within a display region to show the body.

The unified social content platform can optionally include additional APIs or templates for certain dedicated tasks. The unified social content platform can include a query template for regularizing queries of stored materials. In an example the unified social content platform can include rendering templates that can be used in cross platform applications. Such cross platform applications can include as aspects of the social network that is not necessarily provided by the unified social content platform . The rendering templates can be built and registered via the developer application . Applications may select between and among the rendering templates for use with activity items.

In an example the social content platform includes a comment API to append comments to activities or other material managed by the unified social content platform . The comment API can optionally create discussion threads upon the establishment of a comment. Comments can be aggregated with other activity data such as social gestures such as indications that a user likes an activity or content.

The processor can provision a pipeline to transmit applications generated by the unified social content platform to the social network generally such as to be displayed on a user device . The pipelining process can utilize a rich objects layout block to convert conventional text into presentational layouts that include graphics stylized text and so forth. The rich objects layout block can be provided by the processor or can be provided by dedicated resources such as processors and electronic memory. The pipeline provided by the processor can further provide storage and indexing of applications in various examples with or without rich object layouts. The pipeline can be accessible to other applications being generated in the unified social content platform and in various examples elsewhere in the system allowing applications in the pipeline to be utilized for other development purposes. The system generally and in various examples the unified social content platform specifically can incorporate pipeline monitoring functionality to identify applications in the pipeline such as by according to a unique identifier.

As noted above a social network can incorporate various discretely implemented data structures or subsystems in which various types of social network information is provided or stored. For instance in certain examples separate databases may store index and provide different types information such as employment characteristics of a member user activities the advertisements. In an example databases in the electronic data storage generally and in both the long term electronic storage A and the search index B in various examples separately store and provision various informational aspects of the social network.

In various examples the information stored in one database is not directly compatible with respect to information stored in another database . Information stored in one database may for instance incorporate different types and formats of data fields resulting in an inability to store information from one database in another database . Each database may be independently and separately search for relevant information. Thus a search for all information related to a particular member of the social network for instance may be conducted in each individual database with each database separately returning information related to the member. In some examples the unified social content platform can be configured to convert information of the same or related type into a uniform format for use by the system . In that way the unified social content platform can serve to translate between individual databases and the rest of the system .

In various examples contrary to the above examples the electronic data storage is a component of the unified social content platform . In such an example the functionality of the unified social content platform serves to provide a uniform structure for some or all storage of social network information in the electronic data storage . In certain such examples though data may be stored and organized in separate databases the data structures of some or all of the databases may be uniform and not require translation or manipulation for use by the rest of the system .

The unified social content platform can include in the case of incorporating the electronic data storage directly or manipulate in the case of translating from incompatible databases profiles of members of the social network that include characteristics of the members the social graph of the members of the social network and content summaries of applications. The social graph data may be remote to the server or to the social network generally such as by incorporating distributed social graph information from multiple sources outside of the social network. Such distributed social graph information can be accessed as part of a query execution. These data can include dependent data. In an example the member profiles can include fields indicating characteristics such as member activity a member age bracket whether member connections are allowed whether an open link is allowed by the member member group information member connections member country a date the member registered with the social network a default locale a member profile viewer a member web profile various member group exclusions a member name a member gender a member social generation a member time zone or time zone offset a member job industry a identification of an inviter of the member to the social network a time the member last checked the social network a last time the member logged in to the social network a member name preference a member geographic location a member unique identifier a member picture a member email address a member status a member postal code a preferred member locale a number of social network proposals accepted by the member a member region whether the member requires or required referral to the social network or functions of the social network member restrictions a member state a member social network subscription plan a member vanity name a web profile setting and a member age.

The unified social content platform can incorporate as an organic block or call as a separate block a targeted sponsored content platform . The targeted sponsored content platform can be configured to select various forms of sponsored social network content for displaying to particular users and members of the social network based on various criteria as disclosed herein. In various examples the targeted sponsored content platform functions as or incorporates a recommendation engine as disclosed below to compare a sponsored content profile against a user or member profile in conjunction with a sponsored content bid entered by an entity providing the sponsored content. In various examples the targeted sponsored content platform can fully constitute the recommendation engine as disclosed below. The targeted sponsored content platform can incorporate input from the unified social content platform such as output from separate recommendation engine analysis of the content of individual databases such as for recommended organic content. Additionally or alternatively the targeted sponsored content platform can incorporate input directly from applications data storage A and from other sources such as from user devices . In that way the targeted sponsored content platform can consolidate multiple items of recommended content such as recommended organic content from individual databases as well as sponsored content into an overall recommended content presentation for a user of the social network.

In various examples the unified social content platform can be wholly or substantially self contained sufficient. In various examples the unified social content platform does not make sideways calls to another equivalently tiered block. Rather like certain super blocks known in the art the unified social content platform can in certain examples make calls down to general infrastructure blocks. Such infrastructure blocks can include the electronic data storage certain functions that may be provided by the processor such as the pipelining function. Cloud computing functions known in the art can be included as infrastructure.

In various examples equivalent mid tier calls can be made by the unified social content platform to other mid tier or super blocks. In an example another block of an equivalent or approximately equivalent tier such as in various examples discussed herein to the targeted sponsored content platform to the uniform social content platform can provide proxy calls to the unified social content platform . In such an example various services can provide data to decorate onto the result of the proxy call. Alternatively the unified social content platform can monitor streaming data from mid tier or super blocks and maintain read only replicas of data from the other mid tier or super blocks.

The unified social content platform can be published with extension points or service provider interfaces SPI . The unified social content platform can be published as a raw schema and or as a dedicated client library with an SPI including interfaces that can be implemented to the unified social content platform as well as to the schemas to for instance permit the addition of processing elements to the processor . The APIs and SPIs of the system generally can be built as independent tasks.

At least some and in various examples all of the targeted sponsored content platforms are capable of separately executing a sponsored content campaign where the campaign itself extends across multiple targeted sponsored content platforms . As will be discussed in detail below each targeted sponsored content platform may be configured to maintain data as received by the targeted sponsored content platform itself receive updates from other targeted sponsored content platforms and anticipate events related to the sponsored content campaign likely received by the other targeted sponsored content platforms between or in absence of updates. As such each targeted sponsored content platform may separately manage a sponsored content campaign and once a campaign termination condition would likely have been met across the system as a whole terminate the sponsored content campaign as implemented by the individual targeted sponsored content platform .

The targeted sponsored content platform incorporates a tracking module a campaign consumption module an index module and in the illustrated example the database . It is to be understood that the database may be one of the databases or as illustrated may be separately provisioned for the purposes of storing data related at least in part to sponsored content campaigns. It is to be understood that the database is not necessarily included as a part of certain targeted sponsored content platforms .

The tracking module may manage the transmission of sponsored content event data such as display of sponsored content to a user on a user device or a user interaction with the content such as by clicking on a sponsored link. The tracking module may perform various aspects of sponsored content event data tracking including but not limited to monitoring and decrypting data sent from the user devices related to interaction with sponsored content buffering such information and storing the sponsored content event data information as a packet in the database or other electronic data storage. The tracking module may also perform error checking and manage the resending of corrupt information de duplication of sponsored content event data information and validation of such information such as may be utilized to identify potentially fraudulent sponsored content event data information.

In one example illustrated in the tracking module may direct sponsored content event data related to a campaign or entity provided on its corresponding server directly to the local database B while forwarding all information to the general data base A. Consequently each targeted sponsored content platform may be subject to receiving sponsored content event data from some or all of the sponsored content campaigns operated by the system . Consequently the sharing of sponsored content event data between targeted sponsored content platforms such as via the database may facilitate the individual targeted sponsored content platforms managing the various campaigns as disclosed herein.

In another example illustrated in each partition corresponds to an individual sponsoring entity with each entity corresponding to one partition . In various alternative examples each partition corresponds to one or more sponsored content campaigns. Sponsored content event data may be directed to the partition corresponding to the event s campaign such as by comparing the campaign identifier and or the sponsoring entity identifier of the sponsored content event data as disclosed herein. From there the partition may provide the sponsored content event data to the targeted sponsored content platform corresponding to the partition .

The tracking module may discriminate between various types of sponsored content event data . For instance simply because a piece of sponsored content is served to a user device does not necessarily mean that the sponsored content will be presented to a user. Rather the sponsored content may simply be pre fetched and or cached for future viewing. In various examples the tracking module may incorporate data such as from the user device and or the unified social content platform and the system generally to identify whether a sponsored content item has been served to a user device but not displayed to a user.

Additionally the tracking module may compensate for lag or delay in registering sponsored content event data such as may occur due to delays in transmitting such events from the user device . In various examples the serving history of various sponsored content event data may be obtained from the unified social content platform and parsed according to the identification of the member of the social network associated with the user device . The history may be utilized to identify likely occurrences of a social content event without having actually received the event itself. In various examples the history of a likely event may be utilized for one 1 minute or less after the serving of the sponsored content event data .

For de duplication the tracking module each serving of a sponsored content item may be registered by a unique identifier such as from the unified social content engine . Sponsored content event data as transmitted from the user devices may include the unique identifier of the corresponding sponsored content item. The tracking module may compare the unique identifier of the sponsored content item as served against the identifier of the sponsored content event data received from the user device and register only a maximum number of events for each item. In various examples the maximum number of events per item is configurable based on the nature of the item. The targeted sponsored content platforms may share sponsored content event data for cross engine de duplication. In various examples de duplicating may be applied to an entire packet from the buffering function disclosed above. In such an example it may be assumed that a duplicate sponsored content event data obtained from a buffered packet means that the entire packet is a duplicate and can be discarded.

The database may be horizontally scalable partitioned and document oriented. The database may be partitioned according to any of a variety of factors. In an example the database is partitioned according to a unique identifier of each entity that is currently running or in various examples has run a sponsored content campaign. Sponsored content event data may incorporate the entity identifier in addition to the identifier related to the sponsored content item as disclosed above. In various examples each partition may store information relating to only one 1 entity or may store information relating to multiple entities.

Data stored in the database may also include an identifier related to the individual targeted sponsored content platform from which the data was obtained. The platform identifiers may be utilized to facilitate the sharing of data between platforms such as to allow various platforms to anticipate the operation of sponsored content campaigns on other platforms .

The database may be utilized to produce reports relating to a sponsored content campaign. One report may detail the type of events corresponding to a sponsoring entity or particular campaign and may include a report date a sponsoring entity identifier a campaign identifier a sponsored content item identifier a number of events that correspond to sponsored content items being displayed to a user on the user device a number of events that correspond to a user selection of a sponsored content item a number of events that result in a conversion for the purpose for which the sponsored content item was presented e.g. a sale from an advertisement or a new member for an organization etc. and a total campaign cost. One report may provide detail on user selections of the sponsored content items and may include a report date a sponsoring entity identifier a campaign identifier a sponsored content item identifier a number of events that correspond to sponsored content items being displayed to a user on the user device the types of user selections of sponsored content items e.g. a dismissal of the content a click through on a link etc. and data relating to the interaction e.g. the timing of a click of a link following initially presenting the link to the user the number of clicks of the link etc. . Other reports are contemplated including relating to metadata related to the campaign.

The tracking module may transmit data to the database according to a variety of processes and schedules. In an example the tracking module regularly transmits sponsored content event data as the data is acquired in contrast for instance to batch transmissions. Transmission of data may be according to multiple threads that may be coordinated to provide data to the database at a maximum rate to control the write rate to the database .

The campaign consumption module may track each sponsored content campaign according to one or more campaign completion criteria. The campaign completion criteria may be based on a completion of the campaign overall and or over a predetermined time period such as one 1 day or twenty four 24 hour period. Thus the campaign consumption module may track the extent to which a campaign is presented to users of the social network and based on that presentation continue the campaign terminate or suspend the campaign temporarily until a predetermined time period has passed e.g. the one day period has passed or a rolling number of sponsored content event data that have occurred within a twenty four 24 hour period has fallen below a threshold or terminate the campaign altogether.

In various examples a campaign consumption module may serve as a master module for one partition . Additionally or alternatively the campaign consumption module may operate as a backup or secondary module for one or more different partitions . The processing capacity for each partition such as may be provided by the processor may manage which campaign consumption module acts as primary module for the partition or the management of the campaign consumption module and partition pairings may occur based on processing throughout the system . Each partition individually or the system generally such as via the database may maintain a log or report of sponsored content event data that has been processed by each partition over a preceding period of time such as thirty 30 second to thirty 30 minutes to facilitate the transfer of primary responsibility of a partition from one campaign consumption module to another campaign consumption module . Such a log may provide for de duplication and other data that may be utilized in the maintenance of the sponsored content campaigns.

Events as stored in the database may be transmitted to the campaign consumption module as a batch. In various examples there is a one to one relationship between campaign consumption modules and databases . Alternatively a database may provide data to multiple campaign consumption modules according to the partition to which the campaign consumption module corresponds as the primary module.

The campaign consumption module may monitor the budget corresponding to each of the campaigns provided by the system . As noted above campaigns may be based on a lifetime budget and or a budget over a particular sub period of the lifetime such as one day one 1 week one 1 month or a variety of other time periods as would be apparent. The campaign consumption module may monitor both the budget for a particular campaign as well as the budget for a sponsoring entity. Thus if for instance an entity has multiple campaigns each with a budget as well as a budget for the entity as a whole exceeding the budget for a particular campaign may terminate or suspend that particular campaign or exceeding the budget for the entity may result in the termination or suspension of all of the campaigns corresponding to the entity.

The campaign consumption module may receive sponsored content event data from the database and update the statistics related to campaign and sponsoring entity budgets accordingly. In an example according to a particular campaign a presentation of a sponsored content item on a user device may correspond to a first cost a user interaction with a sponsored content item may correspond to a second cost and so forth. On the basis of the sponsored content event data as obtained by the tracking module and stored in the database the campaign consumption module may determine the total cost that may be applied to the budget for the campaign and or entity.

The campaign consumption module may check campaign parameters periodically such as once per minute to determine if a campaign termination criterion has been met. Such checking may include determining if external factors relating to the campaign parameters such as the passage of time have changed such as if a new day week month has begun in which case campaign and or entity tracking may be reset for the corresponding time period. Alternatively or additionally the campaign consumption module may check campaign parameters on the basis of receiving predetermined sponsored content event data . In such an example the campaign parameters and related external factors may be checked when a received sponsored content event data indicates that a user has interacted with a sponsored content item as disclosed herein.

In addition to determining campaign termination conditions the campaign consumption module may also utilize sponsored content data to monitor minimum criteria for campaigns. In various examples campaigns may require both a maximum budget as well as a minimum amount of exposure of sponsored content from the campaign such as over a predetermined time period such as one 1 day. The campaign consumption module may monitor the number of sponsored content event data of various types to determine if campaign minimum criteria are being met.

In an example a campaign may set a minimum number of displays of sponsored content items on the user devices . A campaign may also set a goal of a predetermined number of interactions with and or conversions of sponsored content items as detailed herein. The campaign consumption module may monitor such sponsored content event data either generally or specific to the types of events. The campaign consumption module may provide periodic reports relating to the meeting of campaign minimums and or may provide alerts if the campaign minimums are not being met. On the basis of the reports and or alerts the targeted sponsored content platform generally may increase a likelihood of a sponsored content item being transmitted to a particular user device as disclosed herein.

The screen includes a body of an activity as generated by the summarizer module . The illustrative example body includes an actor field a verb field an object field and an attributed entity field . The unified social content platform can include text to link together the body fields into a grammatically coherent way. The linking text can be included by a developer such as via the developer application in the development of the pertinent application or according to an engine of the unified social content platform that can generate appropriate and substantially grammatically correct phrases.

The actor can be an entity that initiated the activity that is the current subject of the screen . The actor can be a person or a company or any entity that can be identified. The verb can be a complex type registered with an application . Registration can be based on a user selection via the developer application and can be changed dynamically. Conjugation can be specified by the developer when the verb is registered. A registered verb may also define custom properties by specifying each property s name and type. When a developer publishes an activity the publisher can spicy the verb and provide values for various properties. Development comments can be appended to verbs in various examples.

The object is an entity acted upon by an activity statement. The object can be an entity that has an identifier. The object can be an entity identified by a URL. The object can be an entity that can be summarized with a title and variously a description an image and a URL from a publisher of the object. In various examples an activity can not include an object and can be referred to as a post .

The object can take the form of a target . The target can be utilized where the object is part of a larger class. For instance X applied for a job at Y provides Y as an example of a target where Y is a specific company.

An attributed activity or application can be the originator of the activity. The attributed activity can be provided where the actor of the activity is not the entity that originated the activity. In an exemplary format X shared a link from Y where X and Y are both actors provides an attributed activity.

Standard and custom actions can be available for an activity. Additional actions may be provided by a publisher or developer once the action is registered with the developer application . In query results standard and custom actions can be attached to pertinent activities and in an example to each pertinent activity for rendering.

Custom properties may be defined for verbs and objects. Once defined can activity can be published with the properties. On output comments and counts of other social actions can be attached to each activity to facilitate rendering the comments and counts can be rendered inline with the activities. Similar activities can be grouped into common families according to a selectable data field of the activity. Annotations can allow semantic regions of text to be marked up upon displaying an activity.

Verbs objects and other data types disclosed herein can be customized. Data types can be primitive or complex according to their number of customizable properties. Properties can be utilized to specify data type layout on the screen such as according to syntax and appearance. The develop application can be utilized to customize such properties. The properties can be selectable and customizable according to standard protocols known in the art or according to proprietary protocols.

The user interface screen can include additional information such as that can be included on social network web sites. An image can provide an image chosen by or indicative of a user of the social network or an entity providing content to the social network. A content rendering section can display information such as a status update an article a web link and other social network content. A call to action section can provide options for users of the social network to comment on or otherwise interact in a social network context with the content in the rendering section . A social summary section can show social network interactions with the content such as can be conducted by users of the social network in the call to action section . For instance a comment or other use interaction with the content can be displayed in the social summary section .

The developer application screen includes menu tabs to select various functions of the developer application . The tabs can include an actor creation tab a verb creation tab an object creation tab and a feed creation tab . Various tabs can be excluded dependent on operational needs while additional tabs can be included as needed or as may be convenient. The tabs can be supplemented by or replaced with other conventional menu selections known in the art.

The tabs or other menu options can provide access to corresponding frames as illustrated a verb creation frame corresponding to the verb creation tab . The verb creation frame provides new verb specification field for the specification of the verb conjugations of the verb and similar information and new verb property fields such as can specify activities and applications to which the verb applies. Similar fields for specifying objects and the like can be available on frames corresponding to other tabs .

An actor creation frame accessible by the actor creation tab can include fields to specify a name a namespace and a description of the actor. Each actor can be specified a unique identifier. The actor creation frame can further include fields for actor attribution to specify how an attribution is displayed in an activity body such as where in a sentence the attribution is displayed e.g. X commented on Y via Z . Actor attribution can be located in a separate frame or be accessible by a separate tab.

The verb creation frame can include fields for an un conjugated form of the verb conjugated forms of the verb and fields for custom properties of the verb. The developer application can provide estimated conjugations of the un conjugated in the conjugated verb fields that can be subject to editing via the fields . The verb creation frame can display an example activity that includes the verb.

An object type creation frame accessible by the object creation tab can provide fields for entering the type of an object such as a branch a grammatical article e.g. a or an that may in certain examples be an estimated article by the developer application and fields to specify a singular and a plural form of the object. Additional fields may provide for the specification of custom properties of the object. Optional templates may be presented and selected for use with the object as well as a preview of an example activity using the object.

The object type creation frame can further include fields specifying how to treat an object that appears as a target such as what prepositions to use with respect to the object as a target. In various examples objects can be referred to by type such as a general classification of the object rather than by the object itself. By way of comparison an orange can be specified to be referred to as an orange or as a fruit .

The query type creation frame can be utilized for the creation of a feed such as in a browsing query language BQL as well as to define attributes that are referenced in a query. A preview of the feed for the query can be rendered in the frame and or saved for future use or application. A unique identifier can be assigned to the feed. Each feed can be assigned a URL. Accessing the URL can display the query utilized to generate the feed.

Various applications and the components of the applications can be made generally accessible to developers who have access to the developer application. Such applications can be generally available and subject to being modified by any developer such as by locking the application while a developer is making changes and then releasing the application for another developer to make changes. Certain applications can be designated as being not publicly modifiable.

In various examples the developer application can support the generation of aggregated or consolidated applications. In an example where multiple entities have acted on the same object an aggregated application can be generated. e.g. X and Y have commented on Z s update. In an example where an entity has acted on multiple objects an aggregated application can be generated. e.g. A has joined B and C. In an example where an entity has performed multiple actions a single collapsible and expandable update can be generated. e.g. K has commented on L s update K is now connected to M and K read N s article can be consolidated to K has commented on L s update. show more from K The unified social content platform can be based on indexed search criteria that can return for instance all of the activities of a particular entity over a predetermined time period. The unified social content platform can periodically search for entities and objects in the search index to identify pertinent information that can support aggregated or consolidated actions.

The model can form the basis for rendering by providing instructions to the client side such as the user device . The client side can utilize the model to render the activity. Based on changes promulgated to the client side upon an updated standard for rendering the model the rendering itself may be changed and updated without having to change the model or the activity itself.

The unified social content platform can provide multiple models. The number of models may be limited in order to prevent undesired lack of uniformity. However the number of models may be selectable to permit desired flexibility. Various models can include a basic model that includes one each of the picture field the headline field and the summary field . An additional model can include a gallery view that includes multiple picture fields and in various examples no summary field . A list view model can include an expanded summary field such as includes a bulleted list and that optionally does not include a picture field .

In an example a developer can chose from among the pre defined models. For each model the developer an establish how to fill in each field such as with specified images bodies verbs objects and so forth. The model can be stored in the electronic data storage as a model schema. Each field can be assess upon return of the model from the electronic data storage for changes in the properties of the items that fill the fields .

To conduct rendering the client side such as the client device can be provided with a parser function to transform the body into an appropriate format based on the context of the client device such as whether the client device is a desktop computer a mobile device and so forth. The client device can further be provided with a renderer function that can transform the model into the appropriate context. Based on the combination of the body and the model the client device can render the complete activity in the consistent format established throughout the application of the social network.

In various embodiments the system includes logic such as in the targeted sponsored content platform that can identify user characteristics that conform to a given sponsored content campaign profile. In various examples upon receiving a request to identify user characteristics similar to a particular sponsored content campaign profile the system may analyze a variety of user characteristics to select one or more user characteristics that have the highest aggregate sponsored content scores with respect to the sponsored content campaign profile. The identification can be in real time understood to be an analysis that is conducted essentially immediately upon receiving the sponsored content profile. After identifying the most similar user characteristics e.g. those with the highest aggregate sponsored content scores the system may transmit information related to the sponsored content to the selected users.

In various examples the targeted sponsored content platform can generate a list of user characteristics with the highest aggregate sponsored content scores. The list can be presented to a sponsor of the sponsored content. The sponsor can identify users who have user characteristics that are desirable for sending sponsored content to and manually select users of the social network to whom sponsored content can or should be presented.

In various examples a recommendation service or feature may generate an average user characteristic based on the aggregate user characteristic information of all or some selected users for particular sponsored content. For instance the recommendation service may select the average user characteristic as an input to the user characteristic matching algorithm and identify user characteristics that are similar to the model sponsored content profile for the sponsored content campaign. For each user characteristic that is determined to be similar to the average user characteristic for a particular sponsored content the targeted sponsored content platform may recommend to a user having a user characteristic similar to the sponsored content profile for the instant sponsored content that the user be presented with the sponsored content if the user has not already been so presented.

The ability to accurately identify in real time or essentially real time a set of user characteristics most similar to a sponsored content profile or in various examples a set of company profiles most similar to a user characteristic can be achieved with a general recommendation engine of the targeted sponsored content platform . Accordingly at least in some examples the recommendation engine provides a recommendation service that can be customized for use with multiple applications or services. A recommendation entity can be a collection of information organized around a particular concept that is supported by the system in general and the recommendation engine in particular. For instance some examples of recommendation entities are user characteristics interest groups companies advertisements events news discussions text posts short form posts questions and answers and so forth. Accordingly in some examples by specifying the particular characteristics of two recommendation entities to be compared and by specifying a particular algorithm for use in generating an aggregate score such as in the instant example an aggregate company score for the two recommendation entities the recommendation engine can be configured and customized to perform such tasks as generate aggregate sponsored content scores for use in presenting sponsored content to a user generate aggregate sponsored content scores for use in recommending particular interest groups that a user might be interested in joining generate aggregate sponsored content scores for use in displaying an appropriate or relevant advertisement to a particular user and many others.

In an example the recommendation engine operates in two phases. In the first phase the data representing each individual instance of a particular recommendation entity such as the user characteristics and the sponsored content characteristic is processed by a characteristic extraction engine to extract the relevant characteristics on which matching analysis is to be performed. In various examples in the case of user characteristics only certain characteristics or portions of a user s characteristics may be selected for use in determining the similarity of any two profiles such as the user characteristics and a sponsored content profile. As such during the first phase a characteristic extraction engine processes each user characteristic to extract the relevant characteristics including profile characteristics behavior characteristics and social graph characteristics. In addition to simply extracting certain characteristics from relevant recommendation entities the characteristic extraction engine may derive certain characteristics based on other information included in the recommendation entity such as from the user characteristics.

In various examples user characteristics can be obtained inferentially. In one example one characteristic that may be used to identify similarities between user characteristics and a sponsored content profile is work experience. Work experience may included as a characteristic in user characteristics directly or may be arrived at indirectly such as by being measured in the number of years since a user graduated from a selected educational institution or achieved a particular educational level. While work experience in an example may not be included as raw data in a user s characteristics it may be derived with a calculation if the user s graduation date is specified in the user s characteristics. In addition in some examples the characteristic extraction engine may standardize and or normalize various characteristics such as a user s sponsored content or position title or the name of a company at which a user has indicated being employed. In some examples certain characteristics may be retrieved from external data sources using other information included in the recommendation entity as part of a query to the external data source.

The first phase may occur in real time or as a background operation such as offline or as part of a batch process. In some examples that incorporate relatively large amounts of data to be processed the first phase may be achieved via a parallel or distributed computing platform. Once the relevant characteristics have been extracted computed derived or retrieved relevant characteristics of the one or more selected users or sponsored contents can be stored as a pre processed recommendation entity. For instance in the case of user characteristics the characteristic extraction process can result in enhanced user characteristics that includes only the relevant characteristics extracted from a user s characteristics as well as any derived or retrieved characteristics. The enhanced characteristics can be used during the recommendation engine s second phase when the matching engine compares the relevant characteristics from the sponsored content profile against each user characteristic until those user characteristics with the highest aggregate sponsored content scores are identified.

In an example during the second phase the matching engine of the recommendation engine uses a configuration file that is customized for the particular analysis being performed. For example a first configuration file referred to herein as a profile matching configuration file may exist for use in identifying user characteristics similar to a sponsored content profile whereas a second configuration file specifying different characteristics from different recommendation entities to be compared and a different algorithm for computing the matching scores may be specified for determining the sponsored content that is most likely to be of interest to a particular user. As such by configuring the characteristic extraction engine to extract relevant data from certain recommendation entities and customizing the analysis performed by the matching engine with an appropriate configuration file a wide variety of recommendation operations can be achieved with the general recommendation engine.

The front end of the social network server consists of a user interface module e.g. a web server which receives requests from various client computing devices and communicates appropriate responses to the requesting client devices. For example the user interface module s may receive requests in the form of Hypertext Transport Protocol HTTP requests or other web based application programming interface API requests. The application logic layer includes various application server modules which in conjunction with the user interface module s generates various user interfaces e.g. web pages with data retrieved from various data sources in the data layer. With some embodiments individual application server modules are used to implement the functionality associated with various services and features of the system . For instance the ability to identify user characteristics similar to a sponsored content may be a service implemented in an independent application server module . Similarly other applications or services that utilize the recommendation engine may be embodied in their own application server modules .

The data layer can include several databases such as a database for storing recommendation data such as user characteristics and sponsored content profiles and can further include additional social network information such as interest groups companies advertisements events news discussions text posts short form posts questions and answers and so forth. In some examples the recommendation entity data is processed in the background e.g. offline to generated pre processed entity data that can be used by the recommendation engine in real time to make recommendations generally and to identify user characteristics similar to a sponsored content profile. In an example the recommendation engine may retrieve and process user characteristic data including a user profile user behavior and a user social graph in the database to identify user characteristics similar to a sponsored content profile. The database can store application configuration data including one or more configuration files for use with the recommendation engine .

In various examples when a person initially registers to become a user of the system the person can be prompted to provide some personal information such as his or her name age such as by birth date gender interests contact information home town address the names of the user s spouse and or family users educational background such as schools majors etc. employment history skills professional organizations and so on. This information can be stored for example in the database .

Once registered a user may invite other user or be invited by other users to connect via the system . A connection may involve a bi lateral agreement by the users such that both users acknowledge the establishment of the connection. Similarly with some embodiments a user may elect to follow another user. In contrast to establishing a connection the concept of following another user typically is a unilateral operation in some examples does not require acknowledgement or approval by the user that is being followed. When one user follows another the user who is following may receive automatic notifications about various activities undertaken by the user being followed.

The system may provide a broad range of other applications and services that allow user the opportunity to share and receive information often customized to the interests of the user. In some examples the system may include a photo sharing application that allows users to upload and share photos with other users. In some examples users may be able to self organize into groups or interest groups organized around a subject matter or topic of interest. With some embodiments users may subscribe to or join groups affiliated with one or more companies. For instance with some embodiments users of the system may indicate an affiliation with a company at which they are employed such that news and events pertaining to the company are automatically communicated to the users. In some examples users may be allowed to subscribe to receive information concerning companies other than the company with which they are employed. With many of these applications and services one or more recommendation entities may be involved. For instance in addition to identifying user characteristics that are similar to a sponsored content profile the recommendation engine may be configured and customized to identify groups companies or photos that are likely to be of interest to a particular user.

In the case of identifying user characteristics similar to a sponsored content profile the profile matching configuration file is used as an input to the matching engine to specify the various user characteristics that the matching engine is to extract from the pre processed user characteristic data and to compare. In addition the characteristic matching configuration file can specify an algorithm for comparing characteristics and generating an overall matching score.

In various examples each user s and the sponsored content s characteristic data is provided as input to the characteristic extraction engine processed by the characteristic extraction engine and then output and stored as pre processed user characteristic data . In some examples the characteristic extraction engine may extract only relevant characteristics from whatever recommendation entity is being processed by the characteristic extraction engine. So for example in the case of user characteristics the characteristic extraction engine may extract only the characteristics that are necessary for making the determination of whether a user characteristics is similar to a sponsored content profile. However in some examples all characteristics are extracted while only certain characteristics are further processed or refined.

As illustrated the characteristic extraction engine includes a characteristic derivation module and a data retrieval module . In some examples the characteristic derivation module derives certain characteristics e.g. profile characteristics behavior characteristics and social graph characteristics based on the data input to the characteristic extraction engine. For instance in the case of user characteristics the characteristic derivation module may derive one or more characteristics from the information included in a user s characteristics. Similarly the data retrieval module may utilize information input to the characteristic extraction engine to formulate a query that is communicated to an external data source . As such the data retrieval module of the characteristic extraction engine can retrieve various characteristics from one or more external data sources such that these retrieved characteristics can be used to determine the similarity of any two user characteristics.

In addition to deriving various characteristics and retrieving various characteristics the characteristic extraction engine can include logic to normalize or standardize certain characteristics. For instance in some examples a user may be prompted to provide his or her job title. Because job titles can vary from one company to the next and from one industry to the next job titles may be normalized or standardized. For example the simple job title analyst may have very different meanings in different industries. By normalizing and or standardizing the job titles and then writing the standardized and normalized job titles to each user s enhanced characteristics the recommendation engine can make meaningful comparisons and thereby provide relatively accurate results when presenting user characteristics similar to a sponsored content profile.

After the characteristic extraction engine has generated the pre processed user characteristic data the matching engine is able to process client requests to identify user characteristics similar to a sponsored content profile. In some examples the client of the matching engine may simply be a server side application that is requesting the information from the matching engine . Accordingly the requesting application may specify or determine the particular configuration file that is to be used by the matching engine to perform the requested task and achieve the requested objective. When a request is received at the matching engine to provide a list of user characteristics similar to a sponsored content profile the matching engine can use the profile matching configuration file to determine the particular user characteristics that are to be retrieved from the various enhanced user characteristics. In addition in various examples the profile matching configuration file can specify the exact comparisons that are to be performed and how the overall matching score is to be calculated. Accordingly the particular profile matching configuration file can include instructions or directives for use by the matching engine to perform the necessary characteristic comparisons and to generate the aggregate sponsored content scores for each user characteristic such that the aggregate sponsored content score for each user characteristic indicates the similarity of the user characteristics with respect to the sponsored content profile.

In some examples the matching engine can compare multiple individual characteristics such that each compared characteristic results in an aggregate sponsored content score referred to herein as a sub score to reflect that the sub score is a component of the overall aggregate sponsored content score . Once each sub score is determined the sub scores are combined in some manner indicated by the profile matching configuration file . That is the profile matching configuration file will dictate how the matching engine is to weight and combine the individual similarity sub scores to derive the overall aggregate sponsored content score for each user characteristic.

The server can include a sponsored content poster interface such as with a user interface coupled to the server or via the network interface . The user interface can include a conventional keyboard and display configuration well known in the art. The sponsored content poster interface provides an interface for the posting of sponsored contents including a corresponding sponsored content profile on the social network and an ability to enter sponsored content bids for posted sponsored contents. Such interaction by the sponsored content poster can cumulatively be referred to as a campaign. 

The sponsored content poster interface is coupled to a data management system . The data management system can incorporate data management technologies well known in the art or can incorporate proprietary data management structures. In an example the data management system incorporates SAS or Statistical Analysis System data management systems to promote business analysis statistical analysis data storage and recover and the like for sponsored content information. The data management system can include the capacity for social network administrators to utilize the data generated by the data management system such as by inputting tasks into the data management system.

The sponsored content poster interface and the data management system can both be coupled to the database . The sponsored content poster interface can transmit sponsored content data such as sponsored content profiles and sponsored content bids to the database for storage without respect to data management activities. The data management system can store sponsored content data in the database upon the sponsored content data having been acted upon for data management analysis.

The network interface can provide the input of user data such as user characteristics into the social network. The user characteristics can be stored in the database or can be directly transmitted to the sponsored recommendation engine for cross reference against the sponsored content profiles stored in the database . Sponsored contents identified by the sponsored recommendation engine can be transmitted via the network interface to the user device for presentation to the user.

A sponsored content analytics system can track the occurrence of sponsored contents that have been presented to or selected by a user. Bids by sponsored content posting entities can be based on a fixed number of occurrences that a sponsored content is presented to or selected by a user. In an illustrative example a campaign may include a limit of one thousand 1 000 user selections for two 2 dollars per user selection. The sponsored content analytics system can track how many times sponsored content has been presented how many times sponsored content has been selected or clicked on by a user bill a sponsored content presenting entity accordingly and adjust the remaining number of times the sponsored content has left to be presented or selected accordingly.

Various campaigns can specify various limitations or lack thereof. A campaign can include an absolute maximum of clicks that will be sponsored or no limit. A campaign may specify a campaign time limit of hours days or longer or no time limit. The sponsored content analytics system can operate campaigns as auctions such as by adjusting bids for a campaign within a range of bids based on the number of user selections the sponsored content has received many selections may result in a lowered bid while few selections may result in a higher bid. A campaign may specify a campaign limit of monetary expenditure.

The sponsored content analytics system can further monitor which sponsored content is posted to users to seek to prevent sponsored content postings from being duplicated to a single user as well as record analytical information related to the number of times for instance that a presented sponsored content has been clicked on by a user and the user characteristics of users who have clicked on sponsored content presentations. In various embodiments the sponsored content analytics system can present the same sponsored content to the same user a predetermined number of times or until the user clicks on the sponsored content to learn more. The sponsored content analytics system can further terminate sponsored content bids that for instance meet a termination date or are being presented to users unsatisfactorily frequently or unsuccessfully. Additionally the sponsored content analytics system may be utilized to renew or extend sponsored content bids such as at the direction of the sponsored content presenting entity or the social network administrator.

In various examples a recommendation entity for sponsored content can associate a monetary sponsored content bid with sponsored content. In such an example the recommendation engine can incorporate the relative size of a sponsored content bid in the calculation relating to the presentation of particular sponsored content to a particular user. Such monetary sponsored content bids can be in one or more currencies. The currencies may be normalized by up to date currency exchange rates for the purposes of determining the relative value of the bid.

In various alternative embodiments the sponsored content bid can be non monetary or can incorporate non monetary elements. Such non monetary elements can be promotional credits offered to a sponsored content posting entity by an administrator of the social network can be services in kind with a supplier to the social network and so forth. Such non monetary elements can be assigned an equivalent monetary value for the purposes of calculating the relevance of particular sponsored content to a particular user.

In various examples the database incorporates multiple sponsored content profiles each of the sponsored content profiles individually corresponding to one sponsored content item for which an entity that has corresponding sponsored content on offer. The sponsored recommendation engine is configured to determine an aggregate sponsored content score for at least some of the sponsored content profiles in the database by incorporating a relevance of the sponsored content profiles to user characteristics using the recommendation engine and a potential sponsored content bid corresponding to each sponsored content profile. Sponsored content profiles that do not incorporate a sponsored content bid may either not have their relevance score modified or may be treated by the system as a separate type of sponsored content profile in comparison with sponsored content profiles that have corresponding sponsored content bids.

In various examples when a user accesses the social network the sponsored recommendation engine cross references the user s characteristics against some or all of the sponsored content profiles in the database . The recommendation engine can generate a relevance for each of the cross referenced characteristics. The sponsored recommendation engine can utilize a processor in various examples the processor is the processor of the system can manipulate the relevance for the sponsored content profile by a corresponding sponsored content bid. In an example the relevance for a sponsored content profile is multiplied by the sponsored content bid corresponding to the sponsored content profile.

In an illustrative example if the recommendation engine arrives at a relevance of 0.8 for user characteristics in comparison with a first sponsored content profile for instance because eighty 80 percent of the characteristics of the user and the first sponsored content profiles match and the first sponsored content profile has a bid of two 2 dollars the aggregate sponsored content score for the first sponsored content is 1.6. If the recommendation engine arrives at a relevance of 0.4 for user characteristics in comparison with a second sponsored content profile and the second sponsored content profile has a bid of five 5 dollars the aggregate sponsored content score for the second sponsored content is 2.0. The social network may then display information related to the second sponsored content ahead of information related to the first sponsored content on the user device corresponding to the user.

In various examples the relevance of a job profile to a user may also factor in previous success that the job posing has had with other users. If a large percentage of users who are presented with a job posing based on the job profile select the job posing for more information then the job posting may be deemed more relevant. A so called click through rate that exceeds a threshold may result in the relevance of the job posing being increased while a click through rate less than a threshold may result in the relevance of the job posting being reduced.

Relatedly the characteristics of other users of the social network who do select a job posting for more information can also be incorporated into determining the relevance for a particular user. Characteristics of users who have selected a particular job posting in the past can be compared against user characteristics of a prospective user. To the extent that user characteristics of a prospective user are or are not related to the user characteristics of users who have selected a job posting in the past the relevance of the job posting may similarly be increased or decreased for a prospective user. As such the server may store characteristics of users who have selected the job posting in the past and may develop composite user characteristics. The degree to which the characteristics of a prospective user match the composite characteristics may weight the results of the recommendation engine more heavily for a given prospective user.

In various examples the sponsored recommendation engine does not present a sponsored content with corresponding sponsored content bid unless the relevance of the sponsored content profile to the user characteristics is greater than a minimum threshold. In such examples it may be undesirable to display sponsored content that is unsuitable to a particular user to that user regardless of how much the sponsored content posting entity has bid. In various examples the minimum threshold for sponsored content is approximately 0.85 and the minimum threshold for unsponsored content is 0.4. Thus if the relevance of a third sponsored content profile to a user profile is 0.7 the sponsored content would not be presented to the user regardless of the size of the corresponding sponsored content bid while unsponsored content with that relevance may be presented to the user.

In various examples sponsored content with sponsored content bids i.e. sponsored content and that have the highest aggregate sponsored content score are always presented to the user more prominently than sponsored content that does not have a corresponding sponsored content bid i.e. organic content . In an example only sponsored content is presented to the user. In an example the system may present the user a predetermined number of sponsored contents with the sponsored contents having the highest aggregate sponsored content scores presented to the user in descending order. If there are not sufficient sponsored contents to meet the sponsored contents requirement then the unfulfilled sponsored contents quota may simply be unmet. Upon the presentation of the predetermined number of sponsored contents organic content may then be presented to the user such as according to the organic content determined relevance to the user.

In an alternative example the organic content may be assigned the same aggregate sponsored content score as their relevance score and all sponsored and organic content presented to the user based on the comparative sponsored content scores. In such an example if an organic content has an aggregate sponsored content score of 1.0 while the highest aggregate sponsored content score for a sponsored content is 0.9 the organic content may be presented to the user ahead of the sponsored content.

In various examples the system can obtain a combination of recommended sponsored and organic content for display on a user device . As discussed above the unified social content platform can incorporate or can access or call the targeted sponsored content platform . In various examples a recommendation engine can receive output from one or more databases . In examples in which the data in various databases is not format compatible across the databases the unified social content platform can translate the various data elements into a format such as a single common format that can be utilized by the recommendation engine to obtain recommendations.

In an example the recommendation engine produces a list of recommended content for each individual database from which recommended content is to be obtained. In an illustrative example individual databases include a job posting database a status update database an articles database configured to store content such as published informative or entertainment articles and other multimedia content a user characteristics database and so forth. The recommendation engine can separately assess each individual database and obtain recommended content from each database . In an example the recommendation engine obtains a predetermined number of recommended results from each database .

In the illustrated example the user interface screen includes a news feed of sponsored and organic content. In various examples the news feed is an ordered list based on various criteria described herein. If the sponsored recommendation engine did not identify any sponsored content to present to the user the user interface screen may only present organic content. Depending on the aggregate sponsored content scores and the criteria for displaying the news feed in certain examples only sponsored content is presented on the news feed .

In an example noted above sponsored content items A B are displayed at the top of the list i.e. most prominently on the news feed . In the above example the sponsored content item B corresponds to the second sponsored content profile that received an aggregate sponsored content score of 2.0 and is displayed most prominently at the top of the news feed while sponsored content item corresponds to the first sponsored content profile that received an aggregate sponsored content score of 1.6 and is displayed below and less prominently on the news feed than the first sponsored content item B. In the illustrated example the sponsored content items A B include a sponsored content title a sponsored content category a sponsored content location are marked sponsored in the label section .

In the illustrated example organic content items A B are displayed less prominently than the sponsored content items A B. In an illustrative example the organic content item A corresponds to a relevance score of 0.9 and is displayed above of and more prominently than the organic content item B which has a relevance score of 0.7. The organic content items include the content title the content category the content location and the label section . In various examples organic content items A B do not incorporate a label section or includes a label section with an indication that the content is not sponsored.

As noted above various examples permit content items A B and A B to be displayed in various arrangements depending on the requirements of the social network. Thus as noted above the organic content may have their relevance scores converted into aggregate sponsored content scores and then all of the content items A B and A B positioned in the news feed according to their aggregate sponsored content scores. In this way organic content A B may be presented more prominently than some sponsored content items A B.

In various examples the news feed may not include any sponsored content item A B such as if no content has been sponsored or if no sponsored content exceeds the relevance threshold for the user. In various examples the news feed may not include any organic content A B such as if the social network has been programmed to first present all sponsored content item A B until space on the news feed has been exhausted and only then begin displaying organic content.

The interface screen includes an identifier field to enter an identifier such as a name for the campaign. The identifier may be descriptive of the campaign and or may uniquely identify the campaign. The interface screen further includes a bid field in which a bid price or range of bid prices for an auction format can be entered. A budget field can be utilized to limit either the number of sponsored content presentations or user selections will be paid for or a monetary limit for the campaign. Sponsored content profile field can be utilized to upload sponsored content profile characteristics or select a sponsored content profile that has already been entered into the system . In various examples a single campaign can include multiple sponsored content profiles with each user selection of a sponsored content profile counting against the limitations for the campaign as a whole.

The interface screen can be utilized to modify existing campaigns. Existing campaigns can be lengthened or shortened have budgets and or bids increased or decreased and have sponsored content profiles added or removed from the campaign. Under certain business conditions a sponsored content poster may be prevented from adjusting a campaign once a campaign has begun in which case the interface screen may reflect an inability to change campaign parameters. In various examples an administrator of the social network may always be given access to modify a campaign.

At the relevant characteristics for a user or sponsored content profile are retrieved. In some examples the characteristic extraction engine is configured to extract only certain characteristics from each user s information. Accordingly the characteristic extraction engine may simply retrieve from a database the relevant data corresponding to the relevant characteristics. In some examples the retrieval may be performing a database look up or fetch of the relevant data.

At as some characteristics may be free form text i.e. unstructured data such as a description of a user s interest skills hobbies career objectives and so forth some of the relevant characteristics that have been retrieved are parsed and extracted from their raw data format.

At one or more processes may be performed to either normalize or standardize one or more characteristics. For instance a user s job title may be standardized so that it can be more easily compared with others. Similarly the name of a company that employees a user may be normalized for example to drop or add Inc. or Corporation and so forth.

At the characteristic extraction engine may derive one or more characteristics from raw data included in a user s characteristics or sponsored content s profile. For example in some examples one or more enhanced characteristics may be characteristics that are derived from the raw data included in a user s characteristics. If for example a user s characteristics indicates the year that he or she graduated from college an enhanced characteristic that can be derived from this raw data may include the number of years of work experience after college. In addition some characteristics may include data received from a data source external to the system . Accordingly data from a user s characteristics e.g. a name or other identifying data may be used to query an external data source for additional information about the user.

At the relevant characteristics including characteristics such as extracted characteristics derived characteristics normalized or standardized characteristics or retrieved characteristics are written to storage as pre processed enhanced user characteristics.

At the recommendation engine receives retrieves or otherwise reads or processes a profile matching configuration file. The profile matching configuration file which may be a document formatted in Extensible Mark up Language XML or in some other format specifies the particular characteristics or data elements that are to be extracted or retrieved from a particular recommendation entity such as an enhanced user characteristic. For example in assessing the relevance of user characteristics to a sponsored content profile the names of the person and the sponsored content may not play a role in determining the similarity of the characteristics. As such the profile matching configuration file may not include user s names as a characteristic to be extracted and compared. However technical skills or professional organizations may be relevant to the analysis and as such these characteristics may be specified in the profile matching configuration file such that the data representing these characteristics are ultimately retrieved and analyzed by the matching engine .

As discussed below the profile matching configuration file specifies the particular characteristics to be retrieved as well as the particular matching algorithms to be used for each of the retrieved characteristics. For example the profile matching configuration file indicates an algorithm or comparison operations that are to be performed for the various characteristics specified in the profile matching configuration file and how the various similarity sub scores resulting from the comparison of individual characteristics are to be combined to generate an overall relevance. In some instances the profile matching configuration file may indicate that a particular comparison is to be performed for a particular characteristic that results in a match only when there is an exact match. In other instances a partial match may be indicated and so forth. In some instances the comparison may involve determining whether a particular user characteristic is within a particular distance of the same sponsored content profile characteristic and so forth. As such the matching profile may indicate not only the type of matching operation to be performed between a particular pair of characteristics but also the weight that should be applied to any resulting sub score generated as a result of a match occurring between two characteristics. In some examples the weight applied to any particular sub score may be dependent upon the extent to which two characteristics match as specified by a matching algorithm or rule in the profile matching configuration file.

At the relevant characteristics for one of the user characteristics and the sponsored content profile are retrieved. In some instances the sponsored content profile may be selected by a user while in other instances an application or process selects a particular sponsored content profile. In any case the relevant sponsored content profile characteristics for the selected sponsored content profile are those sponsored content profile characteristics specified in the profile matching configuration file obtained at . In some examples each user and sponsored content profile may have an identifier e.g. such as a user or sponsored content identifier or user or sponsored content profile identifier . Accordingly a request to identify sponsored content profiles similar to user characteristics may include an identifier identifying the sponsored content profile. With this the matching engine can retrieve the necessary characteristics from the pre processed enhanced user or sponsored content profile for the particular user or sponsored content identified by the user or sponsored content identifier as the case may be.

At the matching engine retrieves the same set of characteristics for the other of the user characteristics or sponsored content profile not retrieved at . In some examples the particular user or sponsored content profiles that are compared may be selected based on some required matching criteria either by default or as specified by an application process or user who has initiated the request. For instance the matching analysis may be limited to only those users or sponsored content that share a particular characteristic in common with the profile selected in such as having the same job title or experience requirement. In other instances the entire set of user characteristics or sponsored content profiles may be considered.

At the matching engine compares the various characteristics and calculates a relevance for the user characteristics and the sponsored content profile in accordance with the instructions or directives set forth in the profile matching configuration file. For instance the profile matching configuration file indicates what comparison operation is to be performed for a pair of characteristics and how the various similarity sub scores are to be combined to derive the overall aggregate sponsored content score.

At the relevance is associated with the user characteristics. The process of operation may be repeated for additional sponsored content profiles until all of a particular set of sponsored content profiles have been assigned relevance scores.

At once all the sponsored content profiles have a relevance score indicating a level of similarity to the user characteristics a certain number of the sponsored content profiles with the highest aggregate sponsored content scores are selected for use with the sponsored recommendation engine . In some examples the number of sponsored content profiles that are selected and provided for use with a requesting application may be determined using some default or predetermined number. Alternatively in some examples the number of user characteristics that are selected and provided to a particular requesting application may be configurable so that a certain number of the user characteristics with the highest relevance scores are provided. For example in some examples the profile matching configuration file specifies the number of user characteristics that are to be returned to the requesting application. The number of user characteristics may be specified explicitly e.g. ten thirty one hundred or via a rule such as the top X number of user characteristic sets or all user characteristic sets with a matching score exceeding X or some combination.

At a user characteristic is received by the processor . In various examples multiple user characteristics are received by the processor . The user characteristic can be received via network interface can be obtained from the electronic data storage of the system or can be received as input from a direct physical connection to the system among other possible input methodologies known in the art.

At a sponsored content characteristic of a sponsored content profile of a sponsored content is received by the processor . In various examples multiple sponsored content characteristics of the sponsored content profile are received by the processor . The sponsored content characteristic can be received via the sponsored content poster interface such as via the network interface from the electronic data storage of the system or can be received as input from a direct physical connection to the system among other possible input methodologies known in the art. In various examples sponsored content characteristics from multiple sponsored content profiles can be received.

At a sponsored content bid is received from an entity related to the sponsored content such as a sponsored content posting entity that posted the sponsored content to the social network. In various examples the sponsored content bid can include a monetary bid for a number of times a message related to the sponsored content is posted on a user device a number of times a user selects or clicks on the message an amount of money the sponsored content posting entity is willing to pay for each time a sponsored content message is presented selected or otherwise interacted with a total amount of money the sponsored content posting entity is willing to pay a duration of time the bid is active and so forth as disclosed herein. In various examples multiple sponsored content bids from multiple pieces of sponsored content can be received. The number of sponsored content bids received thereby denoting sponsored content can be less than the total number of sponsored content items corresponding to the sponsored content profiles received at with the sponsored content items not corresponding to sponsored content bids being organic content.

At the processor determines an aggregate sponsored content score for the user based on the relevance of the sponsored content characteristic to the user characteristic and the sponsored content bid. The relevance can be determined according to the methodology of and as disclosed herein. Relevance can be determined as a percentage of matching ones of the user and sponsored content characteristics that comprise the user and sponsored content profiles respectively. The aggregate sponsored content score can be arrived at by applying the bid to the relevance. In various examples the relevance is multiplied by the bid to arrive at the aggregate sponsored content score. In various examples an aggregate sponsored content score is obtained for each sponsored content item. In various examples only a relevance score is obtained for organic content. In various examples both sponsored and organic content obtain an aggregate sponsored content score.

At a message relating to the sponsored content is presented to the user based at least in part on the aggregate sponsored content score. In various examples the message is presented as illustrated on the interface screen . In various embodiments the message includes an internet web link to further information. As shown on the interface screen presentation of the message related to the sponsored content can be organized on the interface screen as an ordered list according to whether the sponsored content is sponsored content and which sponsored content has the largest aggregate sponsored content score. In various examples multiple messages related to different sponsored content items are presented with respect to one another based on their respective aggregate sponsored content scores such as by placing higher magnitude aggregate sponsored content scores relatively more prominently on the interface screen . In various examples only sponsored content that has a relevance with a magnitude greater than a predetermined threshold are presented to the user.

In operation the unified social content platform obtains an unsponsored or organic content group from each of a plurality of unsponsored content group sources such as the databases . In various examples each unsponsored content group includes at least one unsponsored or organic content element. In various examples the unsponsored content groups are obtained based on a relevance of at least some unsponsored content elements of at least some unsponsored content groups to a characteristic of a user such as is determined by the recommendation engine . In various examples each unsponsored content group comprises not more than a predetermined maximum number of unsponsored content elements.

In operation the system generates a sponsored content group. In various examples the sponsored content group includes at least one sponsored content element and an associated bid. In various examples the sponsored content group is generated by the targeted sponsored content platform such as with the sponsored recommendation engine as implemented in or by the targeted sponsored content platform . In various examples the sponsored content group is generated based on the relevance as determined by the sponsored recommendation engine the bid and at least one of a maximum frequency at which individual ones of the sponsored content elements are to be displayed to users and a total available budget for each individual one of the sponsored content elements such as can be entered via the interface and the interface screen . More generally the system can define a pacing for the campaign in which targeted content is delivered substantially evenly over a defined period of time such as over a day a week or a total duration of the campaign in several illustrative examples. In an example the sponsored content group contains not more than a predetermined maximum number of sponsored content elements.

In various examples with respect to at least one of and the user characteristic can be one of multiple of user characteristics. In such examples the unsponsored content elements and the sponsored content elements each have at least one content characteristic. In such examples the recommendation engines can determine relevance of each of the unsponsored and sponsored content elements is based at least in part on a number of user characteristics related to the at least one content characteristic of each of the unsponsored and sponsored content elements.

In operation the targeted sponsored content platform generates a master content group based on the unsponsored content groups and the sponsored content group. In various examples the master content group is generated based on the relevance of the unsponsored content elements as determined by the recommendation engine and a relevance of the sponsored content element to the characteristic of the user and the associated bid as determined by the sponsored recommendation engine . The master content group can be the content that is displayed on the news feed of the user interface screen .

In operation the system and in an example the unified social content platform compares the unsponsored content elements and the sponsored content elements of the master content group to identify duplicate content elements.

In operation the system and in an example the unified social content platform removes at least one duplicate content element from the master content group. In various examples the duplicate content element is an unsponsored content element. In various alternative examples the duplicate element is a sponsored content element. In various examples whether a sponsored or unsponsored content element is removed based on being a duplicate is based on a user selection such as a general rule to always remove either a sponsored content element or an unsponsored content element in the event of duplication.

In operation the system transmits the master content group to a user device associated with the user corresponding to the user characteristic.

In operation the system performs an analytical analysis based on selection of a selectable link of a sponsored content element of the master content group by a user on the user device . In such examples at least some of the unsponsored content elements and sponsored content elements include a selectable link to information relating to the at least some of the unsponsored content elements and sponsored content elements. In various examples the analytical analysis is performed by the sponsored content analytics system . In various examples the analytical analysis is based on a rate at which users who are presented with the at least some unsponsored content elements and sponsored content elements select the selectable link.

In operation the processor for a server A generates a master content group for an individual user of the social network based on an unsponsored content group and a sponsored content group corresponding to the sponsored content campaign as provided by the targeted sponsored content module of the server A.

In operation the transmitter transmits the master content group for display on the news feed of the user interface screen of the user device associated with the individual user.

In operation the server A receives sponsored content event data from the user device associated with the individual user such as user interactions on the user interface screen such as clicks or selections of sponsored content items of the sponsored content group.

In operation the sponsored content event data as received by the server A are optionally stored in the database along with sponsored content event data that may be determined from the generation and transmission of the master content group such as sponsored content items that are transmitted for display on the news feed . As disclosed herein the database may be associated with the particular server A or may be separate from the particular server A.

In operation the targeted sponsored content platform of the server A receives the sponsored content event data variously from the server A itself the database and or directly from the user devices by way of the network and or directly from other servers B C. In various examples the sponsored content event data from the database and or the servers B C is received periodically and or in batches. As a result certain sponsored content event data at the server A may be more current than other sponsored content event data .

The sponsored content event data transmitted to the server A may be based on any of a variety of the metadata associated with the sponsored content event data . For instance the server A may be configured to receive sponsored content event data that corresponds to any sponsored content campaign and sponsored content entity that is operated by the server A. The server A may be configured to receive any other sponsored content event data that may be useful in determining a sponsored content campaign operated by the system .

In operation the targeted sponsored content platform generates campaign data of a sponsored content campaign based on the sponsored content event data as generated by the master content groups presented to individual user devices and as possessed by the targeted sponsored content platform data on the server A. In an example the targeted sponsored content platform utilizes the sponsored content event data and estimates sponsored content event data that has likely been obtained by the other servers B C since the most recently obtained sponsored content event data from the corresponding server B C.

In various examples servers B C may provide sponsored content event data to the database and or to the server A at any of a variety of intervals or batch criteria as disclosed herein. In an example the servers B C provide the sponsored content event data at five 5 minute intervals though it is to be understood that the intervals may be less e.g. thirty 30 seconds or one 1 minute etc. or longer e.g. one 1 hour or one 1 day etc. or may be based on a quantity trigger such as when a buffer is filled or otherwise reaches a predetermined level. In absence of receiving the actual sponsored content event data from each server B C or the database the targeted sponsored content engine may estimate the sponsored content event data that has been generated but not transmitted.

In the above example with five 5 minute data transmission intervals the campaign consumption module may calculate an estimated number of sponsored content event data in a typical batch from a given server B for the subject sponsored content campaign. For instance the campaign consumption module may determine an average number of sponsored content events in an immediately preceding number of intervals such as three 3 intervals five 5 intervals ten 10 intervals and the like and apply the average as the estimated number of sponsored content event data over the not yet received batch. The estimate may be prorated given the anticipated time until the receipt of the next batch thus if two 2 minutes have elapsed since receipt of the previous batch the estimated sponsored content event data may be reduced to forty 40 percent of the estimate for the pending batch. Relatedly if a batch is not received as anticipated the prorating may be greater than one hundred 100 percent if six 6 minutes have passed since the preceding batch the estimated sponsored content event data may be one hundred twenty 120 percent of the average of the preceding batches.

A variety of alternative or additional modes for estimating the sponsored content event data on the servers B C may be utilized. The estimate may be based on an actual number of sponsored content event data over the same time period in a preceding day or preceding days. The estimates may be based on a preceding time period rather than a preceding batch such as one 1 hour twenty four 24 hours and so forth. Additional modes of estimating the not yet received sponsored content event data are contemplated.

In operation the campaign consumption module compares the campaign data as generated in operation against one or more campaign termination criteria. Termination of a campaign may be asynchronous with the receipt of sponsored content event data such as from the servers B C. The campaign termination criteria may relate to terminating the corresponding sponsored content campaign altogether or suspending the sponsored content campaign temporarily. The campaign termination criteria may be based on campaign data directly related to the subject campaign itself or to campaign data related to the sponsoring entity of the campaign. Thus a campaign may be terminated based on meeting a campaign termination criterion for the campaign or the entity such as by exceeding a monetary budget for the campaign or entity or by meeting a desired number of sponsored content events.

The comparison of the campaign termination criterion may be applied to a suspended campaign to reinstate the campaign. For instance where a campaign or entity has a daily maximum budget or desired number of sponsored content events passage of the time limit may allow the suspension of the campaign to be lifted. In an example if a campaign or entity has a daily maximum that was met the turning of the relevant clock to midnight may result in the campaign consumption module lifting the suspension on the campaign or campaigns of the entity.

In operation following receipt of a batch of sponsored content event data that was subject to a previous estimate the campaign consumption module may optionally check the actual data against the campaign termination criteria and rescind the termination of the campaign if the campaign was terminated based on an inaccurate estimate.

With respect to the flowchart of is to be recognized and understood that while the discussion relates to the server A the operations may apply equally well to all of the servers asynchronously and independently. Thus each server may function to provision the same campaign but not be reliant on precisely up to date sponsored content event data from every other server in order to terminate the associated campaign. In that way servers that may be widely dispersed in different data centers may fall out of communication with one another may have unreliable or slow communication channels and other factors while still being configured to provide the same sponsored content campaigns accurately.

In operation the processors such as the may implement the tracking modules track sponsored content event data received from a user device .

In operation the transmitter transmits the sponsored content event data to the database . In various examples the transmitter transmits the sponsored content event data in a batch based on a common destination partition such as based on a common campaign identifier and or a common entity identifier as disclosed herein.

In operation the database stores the sponsored content event data in a partition . In various examples each sponsored content event data is stored in a partition corresponding to at least one of the sponsored content campaign from which the sponsored content event data derives and the partition corresponding to the sponsoring entity corresponding to the sponsored content event data . In various examples the database stores the sponsored content event data based on the campaign identifier and the entity identifier associated with the sponsored content event data . The database optionally de duplicates the sponsored content event data as disclosed herein.

In operation the database transmits at least some of the sponsored content event data from a partition to the server A.

In operation the campaign consumption estimates sponsored content event data not received from the database . In an example the estimated sponsored content event data is based on data that has likely been generated but not received from the partition of the database . In various examples the database may provide the sponsored content event data at five 5 minute intervals though it is to be understood that the intervals may be less e.g. thirty 30 seconds or one 1 minute etc. or longer e.g. one 1 hour or one 1 day etc. or may be based on a quantity trigger such as when a buffer is filled. In absence of receiving the actual sponsored content event data from the database the targeted sponsored content engine may estimate the sponsored content event data that has been generated but not transmitted.

In the above example with five 5 minute data transmission intervals the campaign consumption module may calculate an estimated number of sponsored content event data in a typical batch from the partition for the subject sponsored content campaign. For instance the campaign consumption module may determine an average number of sponsored content events in an immediately preceding number of intervals such as three 3 intervals five 5 intervals ten 10 intervals and the like and apply the average as the estimated number of sponsored content event data over the not yet received batch. The estimate may be prorated given the anticipated time until the receipt of the next batch thus if two 2 minutes have elapsed since receipt of the previous batch the estimated sponsored content event data may be reduced to forty 40 percent of the estimate for the pending batch. Relatedly if a batch is not received as anticipated the prorating may be greater than one hundred 100 percent if six 6 minutes have passed since the preceding batch the estimated sponsored content event data may be one hundred twenty 120 percent of the average of the preceding batches.

A variety of alternative or additional modes for estimating the sponsored content event data may be utilized. The estimate may be based on an actual number of sponsored content event data over the same time period in a preceding day or preceding days. The estimates may be based on a preceding time period rather than a preceding batch such as one 1 hour twenty four 24 hours and so forth. Additional modes of estimating the not yet received sponsored content event data are contemplated.

In operation the campaign consumption module compares the campaign data as generated in operation against one or more campaign termination criteria and terminates the sponsored content campaign. Termination of a campaign may be asynchronous with the receipt of sponsored content event data such as from the database . The campaign termination criteria may relate to terminating the corresponding sponsored content campaign altogether or suspending the sponsored content campaign temporarily. The campaign termination criteria may be based on campaign data directly related to the subject campaign itself or to campaign data related to the sponsoring entity of the campaign. Thus a campaign may be terminated based on meeting a campaign termination criterion for the campaign or the entity such as by exceeding a monetary budget for the campaign or entity or by meeting a desired number of sponsored content events.

The comparison of the campaign termination criterion may be applied to a suspended campaign to reinstate the campaign. For instance where a campaign or entity has a daily maximum budget or desired number of sponsored content events passage of the time limit may allow the suspension of the campaign to be lifted. In an example if a campaign or entity has a daily maximum that was met the turning of the relevant clock to midnight may result in the campaign consumption module lifting the suspension on the campaign or campaigns of the entity.

In operation following receipt of a batch of sponsored content event data that was subject to a previous estimate the campaign consumption module may optionally check the actual data against the campaign termination criteria and rescind the termination of the campaign if the campaign was terminated based on an inaccurate estimate.

With respect to the flowchart of is to be recognized and understood that while the discussion relates to the server A the operations may apply equally well to all of the servers asynchronously and independently. Thus each server may function to provision the same campaign but not be reliant on precisely up to date sponsored content event data from every other server in order to terminate the associated campaign. In that way servers that may be widely dispersed in different data centers may fall out of communication with one another may have unreliable or slow communication channels and other factors while still being configured to provide the same sponsored content campaigns accurately.

In operation sponsored content event data is received. In operation it is determine if a first file exists related to a first time period pertinent to the sponsored content campaign such as one 1 month. In operation it is checked if the date of the event data is past the end date of a most current first file. If so in operation a first file is added or removed so that the start date of the oldest first file is not later than the date of the event data minus ninety 90 days and the end date of the most recent first file is at least as current as the date of the event data . In operation referring to the condition of operation a new first file is added.

In operation it is checked if the date of the event data is greater than a maximum date of a second file corresponding to a second time period relevant to the sponsored content campaign. In an example the second time period is one 1 day. While the flowchart will be discussed with respect to one day periods in the second files it is to be understood that alternative time periods may be utilized and that the time periods discussed herein may be modified accordingly. In operation if so a new file corresponding to a new day is added. In operation it is checked if there are more than two 2 second files. In operation if so the oldest second file is deleted.

In operation referring to the negative condition of operation it is checked if the date of the event data exists in statistics of the second file. In operation if so statistics for the targeted sponsored content platform relating to the particular server A that received the event data are computed. In operation the computed statistics replace the previous statistics in the second file.

In operation referring to the negative condition of operation it is checked if the day of the event data is greater than a minimum day in the second file. In operation if so a new second file corresponding to the day of the event data is created. In operation it is checked if there are more than two 2 second files. In operation if so the oldest second file is deleted.

In operation referring to the negative condition of operation it is checked if the day of the event data is greater than or equal to the start date of the oldest first time period of the first file. In operation if so statistics for the targeted sponsored content platform relating to the particular server A that received the event data are obtained. In operation a change in statistics from the statistics obtained and the event data is computed.

In operation statistics related to the event data are added to the first file. In operation it is checked if a first file was deleted during the operation of the flowchart. In operation if so the first files are shifted one 1 first time period for all first files relating to the sponsored content campaign. In operation statistics are computed for the first files.

In operation referring to the negative condition of operation the event data is added to the first file. In operation it is checked if a threshold has been exceeded for sponsored content events such as particular sponsored content events such as user selections of a sponsored content item . In operation if not the flowchart terminates. In operation if so statistics related to the sponsored content campaign as a whole are computed such as user selection of sponsored content a rate at which sponsored content items are generated and a rate at which the generation of sponsored content items may be changed. In operation statistics related to a sponsored content item to which the sponsored content event data corresponds are computed such as user selection of the sponsored content item a rate at which the sponsored content item is generated and a rate at which the generation of the sponsored content item may be changed. In operation statistics calculated herein may be stored for later retrieval. In operation the flowchart terminates.

In operation sponsored content event data is obtained. In operation it is determined if a sponsored content campaign exists in a cache or in the database that corresponds to the event data . In operation if not the sponsored content campaign is added to the cache or the database . In operation the flowchart is terminated.

In operation referring to the negative condition of operation it is checked if the budget for the sponsored content campaign has changed relative to the data in the cache or database . In operation if so the budget in the cache is updated based on the new budget for the sponsored content campaign. In operation it is checked if a status for the sponsored content campaign has changed. The status may include any of a variety of status parameters for the sponsored content campaign such as whether the sponsored content campaign is active or terminated. In operation if so the status in the cache for the sponsored content campaign is updated to reflect the changed status for the sponsored content campaign. In operation the flowchart terminates.

In operation sponsored content event data is obtained. In operation it is determined if a sponsored content campaign exists in a cache or in the database that corresponds to the event data . In operation if not the sponsored content campaign is added to the cache or the database . In operation the flowchart is terminated.

In operation referring to the negative condition of operation it is checked if a sponsored content item is newer than a sponsored content item corresponding to the sponsored content event data . In operation if so statistics for the sponsored content item corresponding to the event data is cleared statistics for the new sponsored content item may be updated and the sponsored content campaign may be marked for recalculated statistics.

In operation referring to the negative condition of operation it is determined if a status of the sponsored content item has changed. In operation if so it is checked if the status has changed from inactive or terminated to active. In operation if so statistics related to the sponsored content item may be obtained. In operation a status of the sponsored content item may be updated in the cache. In operation the flowchart may be terminated.

The machine includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a radio frequency integrated circuit RFIC or any suitable combination thereof a main memory and a static memory which are configured to communicate with each other via a bus . The machine may further include a graphics display e.g. a plasma display panel PDP a light emitting diode LED display a liquid crystal display LCD a projector or a cathode ray tube CRT . The machine may also include an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a touchpad a trackball a joystick a motion sensor or other pointing instrument a storage unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The storage unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored the instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory within the processor e.g. within the processor s cache memory or both during execution thereof by the machine . Accordingly the main memory and the processor may be considered as machine readable media. The instructions may be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

As used herein the term memory refers to a machine readable medium able to store data temporarily or permanently and may be taken to include but not be limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM buffer memory flash memory and cache memory. While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database or associated caches and servers able to store instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium or combination of multiple media that is capable of storing instructions e.g. software for execution by a machine e.g. machine such that the instructions when executed by one or more processors of the machine e.g. processor cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies described herein. Accordingly a machine readable medium refers to a single storage apparatus or device as well as cloud based storage systems or storage networks that include multiple storage apparatus or devices. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to one or more data repositories in the form of a solid state memory an optical medium a magnetic medium or any suitable combination thereof.

Throughout this specification plural instances may implement components operations or structures described as a single instance. Although individual operations of one or more methods are illustrated and described as separate operations one or more of the individual operations may be performed concurrently and nothing requires that the operations be performed in the order illustrated. Structures and functionality presented as separate components in example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the subject matter herein.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware modules. A hardware module is a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain physical manner. In various example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone computer system a client computer system or a server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In some embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically electronically or any suitable combination thereof. For example a hardware module may include dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured to perform certain operations. For example a hardware module may be a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an ASIC. A hardware module may also include programmable logic or circuitry that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. For example a hardware module may include software encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the phrase hardware module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner or to perform certain operations described herein. As used herein hardware implemented module refers to a hardware module. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where a hardware module comprises a general purpose processor configured by software to become a special purpose processor the general purpose processor may be configured as respectively different special purpose processors e.g. comprising different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple hardware modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses between or among two or more of the hardware modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example one hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions described herein. As used herein processor implemented module refers to a hardware module implemented using one or more processors.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented a processor being an example of hardware. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. Moreover the one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors with these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. an application program interface API .

The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be located in a single geographic location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or a server farm . In other example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be distributed across a number of geographic locations.

Some portions of this specification are presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on data stored as bits or binary digital signals within a machine memory e.g. a computer memory . These algorithms or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. As used herein an algorithm is a self consistent sequence of operations or similar processing leading to a desired result. In this context algorithms and operations involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically but not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical magnetic or optical signals capable of being stored accessed transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated by a machine. It is convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such signals using words such as data content bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals or the like. These words however are merely convenient labels and are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities.

Unless specifically stated otherwise discussions herein using words such as processing computing calculating determining presenting displaying or the like may refer to actions or processes of a machine e.g. a computer that manipulates or transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic magnetic or optical quantities within one or more memories e.g. volatile memory non volatile memory or any suitable combination thereof registers or other machine components that receive store transmit or display information. Furthermore unless specifically stated otherwise the terms a or an are herein used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one instance. Finally as used herein the conjunction or refers to a non exclusive or unless specifically stated otherwise.

