---

title: Cloud based logging service
abstract: Methods and systems are provided for facilitating access to a cloud-based logging service. According to one embodiment, access to a cloud-based logging service is integrated within a network security appliance by automatically configuring access settings for the logging service and creating an account for the security appliance with the logging service. A log is created within the logging service by making use of the automatically configured access settings and the account. A request is received by the security appliance to access data associated with the log. Responsive thereto and without requiring separate registration with the cloud-based logging service, the data is retrieved by the security appliance from the logging service and is presented via an interface of the security appliance.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09521159&OS=09521159&RS=09521159
owner: Fortinet, Inc.
number: 09521159
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160310
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 938 598 filed on Nov. 11 2015 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 294 494 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 636 535 filed on Mar. 3 2015 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 197 521 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 910 968 filed on Jun. 5 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 049 173 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

Contained herein is material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction of the patent disclosure by any person as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all rights to the copyright whatsoever. Copyright 2013 2016 Fortinet Inc.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to the field of computer networks. In particular various embodiments relate to methods and systems for accessing cloud based logging service without requiring user registration to simplify user access for example.

Computer networks used by large business enterprises generally consist of a network of networks spread over geographical regions ranging from different buildings to different continents. Each individual network may contain various network appliances such as routers switches gateways firewalls Wireless Access Points and can also be considered to include general purpose computing devices such as personal computers PDA s laptops printers among others. Among other functions network appliances typically facilitate communication and exchange of content information among local general purpose computing devices and with other remote general purpose computing devices that may be spread over geographical regions.

Over time individual users Information Technology IT professionals and business enterprises have increasingly utilized network solutions to increase capacity and efficiency of their business processes. IT professionals and business personnel have elected to use cloud based services to host their applications and access them through Internet. With the number of users of cloud based services increasing by the day the complexity of network solutions has also increased and so has the threat to computing devices and content stored accessible therein. Accordingly business enterprises are increasingly looking towards safer and more efficient network solutions that meet their data integration and security needs.

In business enterprises computer network activities events and or communications can be logged analyzed and reported by network analysis appliances. Such activities events and communications include but are not limited to the content of one or more packets network status quality of service security events network threats web content and messaging data. Logs and or reports can be generated by existing network security gateway appliances that form part of a given network. Authorized users such as network administrators can generate customized reports using the logs and analyze the reports for further necessary and desired actions.

To make network analysis appliances more cost effective it would be useful to maintain event logs and or traffic logs within a cloud based service. To make such a cloud based logging service more enticing it would be useful to automate the activation of the cloud based logging service by integrating the cloud based logging service within the graphical user interface of network security gateway appliances.

Methods and systems are provided for enabling efficient user access to cloud based logging service without requiring user registration thereby simplifying user access for example. According to one embodiment access to a cloud based logging service is integrated within a network security appliance by automatically configuring access settings for the logging service and creating an account for the security appliance with the logging service. A log is created within the logging service by making use of the automatically configured access settings and the account. A request is received by the security appliance to access data associated with the log. Responsive thereto and without requiring separate registration with the cloud based logging service the data is retrieved by the security appliance from the logging service and is presented via an interface of the security appliance.

Other features of embodiments of the present disclosure will be apparent from accompanying drawings and from detailed description that follows.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to methods and systems for enabling efficient user access to cloud based logging service without requiring user registration thereby simplifying user access for example. Embodiments of the present invention also relate to methods and systems for providing cloud based logging service to users by integrating the cloud based service within a network security gateway appliance thereby enabling the users to use the cloud based logging service by accessing the gateway appliance. According to one embodiment cloud based logging service can be accessed as an Application Programming Interface API from network security gateway appliance without requiring user registration which allows easy and efficient access to log files viewing of log files and data security to stored log files and generated reports. Embodiments of the present invention also relates to methods and systems used for multiple other purposes apart from allowing access to cloud based logging service without requiring user registration including but not limited to reducing complexity of network architecture better and effective GUI representation better accessibility of logging and allied services and minimizing distribution of data over network among other such purposes.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the present invention. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art that embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without some of these specific details.

Embodiments of the present invention include various steps which will be described below. The steps may be performed by hardware components or may be embodied in machine executable instructions which may be used to cause a general purpose or special purpose processor programmed with the instructions to perform the steps. Alternatively steps may be performed by a combination of hardware software firmware and or by human operators.

Embodiments of the present invention may be provided as a computer program product which may include a machine readable storage medium tangibly embodying thereon instructions which may be used to program a computer or other electronic devices to perform a process. The machine readable medium may include but is not limited to fixed hard drives magnetic tape floppy diskettes optical disks compact disc read only memories CD ROMs and magneto optical disks semiconductor memories such as ROMs PROMs random access memories RAMs programmable read only memories PROMs erasable PROMs EPROMs electrically erasable PROMs EEPROMs flash memory magnetic or optical cards or other type of media machine readable medium suitable for storing electronic instructions e.g. computer programming code such as software or firmware .

Various methods described herein may be practiced by combining one or more machine readable storage media containing the code according to the present invention with appropriate standard computer hardware to execute the code contained therein. An apparatus for practicing various embodiments of the present invention may involve one or more computers or one or more processors within a single computer and storage systems containing or having network access to computer program s coded in accordance with various methods described herein and the method steps of the invention could be accomplished by modules routines subroutines or subparts of a computer program product.

If the specification states a component or feature may can could or might be included or have a characteristic that particular component or feature is not required to be included or have the characteristic.

Although the present disclosure has been described with the purpose of cloud based logging service without user registration it should be appreciated that the same has been done merely to illustrate the invention in an exemplary manner and any other purpose or function for which the explained structure or configuration can be used is covered within the scope o the present disclosure.

It should be appreciated that terms cloud based logging service cloud logging service and cloud based service indicate one or more logging services provided at a cloud and accessible either directly or through an appropriate network appliance and hence these terms are used interchangeably in the present description without departing away from the scope of the invention.

Embodiments of present disclosure and their advantages can be understood by reference to . illustrates exemplary network architecture for a cloud based logging service in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. In the present example architecture showing access to cloud based logging service includes a simplified network environment of a typical business organization coupled to the cloud based logging service via a network such as the Internet . According to one embodiment network architecture as illustrated in comprises one or more computing devices such as laptop PC Internet radio and web terminal collectively referred to as computing devices hereinafter wherein the computing devices are accessed by one or more users for transaction of data. Computing devices can be connected to each other over a local area network LAN which can further be connected to a router wherein the router controls data packets entering and leaving LAN .

According to one embodiment router is operatively coupled with a network security gateway appliance wherein the gateway appliance can be configured to integrate a range of security and monitoring technologies and provide features such as but not limited to firewall IPS application control threat monitoring VPN web content filtering and the like. According to another embodiment a syslog server and a network analysis appliance also interchangeably referred to as network system analysis appliance or network security analysis appliance are operatively coupled with network security gateway appliance wherein syslog server is configured to locally store log data of a particular organization or a part thereof. Network security analysis appliance on the other hand can be controlled by network administrator and be configured to access logs store logs analyze logs and periodically on demand generate customized reports for the accessed logs. Network security gateway appliance can be connected to Internet . A cloud based logging service can be connected to Internet to receive network data from gateway appliance or other suitably configured means and store the data in the form of log files to enable authorized users of one or more enterprises to access log files and generate desired reports for taking appropriate measures. In addition logs can also be stored in any or a combination of memory of network security gateway appliance local hard disk of computing devices a separate SQL database netIQ web trends server among other compatible options.

Cloud based logging service can be hosted on a cloud server and is generally an optional service offered to a user such as network administrator . Such an optional service may provide the enterprise employing network security gateway appliance with cost advantages as it can eliminate the requirement of other dedicated hardware such as network analysis appliance and or syslog server . Furthermore in some embodiment cloud based logging service may allow authorized users to access the service from outside of the controlled network thereby providing users with additional flexibility to view log files and generate reports of interest as long as they have Internet access.

According to one embodiment network security gateway appliance enables access to cloud based logging service by means of an interface configured within a graphical user interface GUI of network security gateway appliance . Interface also referred to as access to cloud based logging service can be implemented as one or more command line interface CLI commands one or more HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP links one or more check boxes one or more radio buttons one or more drop down lists one or more text entry fields one or more scrolled list boxes one or more menu bars one or more widgets or any combination of the foregoing or other conventional or future human computer interface mechanisms including but not limited to text based graphics based gesture controlled and voice controlled user interface mechanisms.

In one embodiment when access is enabled to cloud based logging service cloud based logging service is treated by network security gateway appliance as a logging device thereby allowing transparent logging and retrieval of log files having information regarding network level activities events and communications including but are not limited to content of one or more packets network status quality of service security events network threats web content and messaging data. Architecture therefore allows a user to directly access cloud based logging service using graphical interface present on network security gateway appliance and request for desired log files and receive requested files directly on the interface of network security gateway appliance .

According to one embodiment an application programming interface API of cloud based logging service is implemented within network security gateway appliance and can be executed through access to cloud based logging service . As APIs of cloud based logging service can be integrated and implemented within network security gateway appliance registration of network security gateway appliance itself obviates the need for user registration with the cloud based logging service thereby eliminating any further need for user registration authorization or account activation for accessing the cloud based service for viewing log files and generating reports.

According to one embodiment a user or network administrator can access a graphical interface of network security gateway appliance through one or more computing devices for extracting viewing and analyzing log files checking data security generating reports and performing like functions by using access to cloud based logging service which is configured on the interface of appliance . In one implementation a user can send a request to cloud based logging service from a computing device wherein the request can be received at local area network and then transmitted to router . Router receives the request and identifies computing device from which the request has been received and using access control routing protocols transmits the request further to network security gateway appliance . Network security gateway appliance identifies that the received request is for cloud based logging service and accordingly executes application program interface API through access to cloud based logging service for the received request and accesses service to retrieve desired logs and or reports. Retrieved log files and or reports can be outputted as response to received request on graphical user interface of network security gateway appliance .

According to one embodiment network security gateway appliance can include one or more processors not shown for processing requests received by users for particular services such as viewing log files firewall configuration and implementation IPS application control VPN web content filtering configured to provide network security and other like services. Network appliance can further be configured to evaluate the extent of which the network under consideration is secure from network threats content threats and application level threats. Network security gateway appliance can further include a communication interface device not shown for receiving requests from users network administrators and transmitting responses to received requests back to the users network administrators. Further network security gateway appliance can include one or more internal data storage devices or memory coupled to one or more processors that can store data processed and managed by processors and network settings of network security gateway appliance . Memory of network security appliance can further be configured to store log files retrieved from cloud based logging service .

It should be appreciated that architecture of the present invention is merely an exemplary illustration and only for explanation of the proposed architecture. Any change in configuration such as replacement of router by an appropriate switch hub or any other gateway device is completely within the scope of the present disclosure. Furthermore syslog server and network analysis appliance can be suitably incorporated configured or removed from a given network architecture. Similarly any addition of one or more network appliances or change in architecture of the proposed system is completely within the scope of the present invention. For instance instead of a graphical interface on gateway appliance a command line interface can also be provided on the appliance so as to access cloud based logging service of the present invention.

Network security appliance can include one or more of gateways network hardware appliances application level threat detectors or other such systems that allow enterprise class protection against network content and application level threats among allied functions. According to one embodiment memory of network security gateway appliance can store multiple modules which when executed can facilitate interaction with cloud based logging service as have been illustrated and described below in .

According to one embodiment settings module further enables integration of cloud based logging service with network security gateway appliance and implementation of an interface in the appliance by means of a button link tag or any other accessible means which when clicked executed enables a user to access cloud based logging service on the interface of network security gateway appliance . According to another embodiment an application programming interface API of cloud based logging service can be implemented in network security gateway appliance as part of configuration of the cloud based logging service settings wherein the interface GUI of the network security gateway appliance enables invoking of the API upon receiving an appropriate request from a user for access to network logging data.

According to one embodiment cloud based logging service settings module can be configured to customize network security gateway appliance so as to automatically provide requested network logging data to user once a request is given by the user through the interface built on the appliance . According to another embodiment cloud based logging service settings can be customized manually to provide requested network logging data. Settings configured for access to cloud based logging service can include status information indicating whether automatic cloud based logging service is enabled or disabled format of network logging data to be displayed logging duration security level settings access rights to other users frequency of generating network logging data for cloud based logging services among other such setting parameters.

According to one embodiment settings module is configured such that cloud based logging service is enabled by default. In an instance cloud based logging service can be enabled by default for devices that do not have a separate network security analysis appliance. According to another embodiment settings module is configured such that cloud based logging service is disabled by default and interface for access to cloud based logging service is only presented displayed on network security gateway appliance when the cloud based logging service is explicitly enabled by a user using the settings module .

According to one embodiment cloud based logging service access module can be configured to receive a request from a user for accessing cloud based logging service and fetching network logging data based on the received request and parameters defined therein. Log request received from a user can include multiple parameters such as devices for which logged content is to be retrieved preferred fields presented in the log duration for which the log is to be retrieved among other parameters. Based on the received request network appliance through the cloud based logging service interface incorporated therein accesses the cloud based logging service and retrieves relevant log files. One or more APIs customized and integrated into network appliance by cloud based logging service settings module can be used by appliance to extract and present the relevant log files.

According to one embodiment upon receiving a request for viewing network logging data using cloud based logging service from a user one or more APIs integrating network security gateway appliance and cloud based logging service can be invoked and executed. Upon execution of APIs for cloud based logging service data pertaining to requested network logging data can be fetched from location where network logging data is stored and presented to the user in a desired report format. Network logging data fetched by network security gateway appliance can include real time log files downloaded files schedules network analysis configuration status configuration history antivirus status reports generated for log files other requested files among such other content.

According to one embodiment network security gateway appliance can include a command line interface CLI for receiving request from a user for providing cloud based logging service. In such a case request entered by the user is in the form of commands and cloud based logging service access module receives such user entered commands and invokes an appropriate API of cloud based logging service based on the received request and fetches network logging data to fulfill the received request.

According to one embodiment output module can be configured to receive network logging data accessed and fetched from cloud based logging service and present the received network logging data in an accessible format for further display to user on interface of network security gateway appliance . Network logging data received by output module using cloud based logging service access module can be in present in an unaligned and unmanaged format which can then be formatted in a desired and customizable format by the output module before presentation of the final report formatted data to user. Output module can also be configured to generate one or more reports for content received from cloud based logging service and transmit the report s to user by means of the interface present on network security gateway appliance .

Network security gateway appliance can also include memory or a storage device that can store APIs facilitating cloud based logging service. Memory can also be configured to store network logging data reports fetched by cloud based logging service access module for processing by output module . Memory can further be configured to store one or more settings defined by the cloud based logging service settings module . According to one embodiment memory can include one or more of a local disk of network appliance syslog server present as local storage device within an organization database present at a remote location from network security gateway appliance and operatively coupled via internet network analysis appliance any other local storage device such as fixed hard drives magnetic tape floppy diskettes optical disks compact disc read only memories CD ROMs and magneto optical disks semiconductor memories such as ROMs PROMs random access memories RAMs programmable read only memories PROMs erasable PROMs EPROMs electrically erasable PROMs EEPROMs flash memory magnetic or optical cards and the like.

According to one embodiment network security gateway appliance of the present disclosure is Fortigate and cloud based logging service is Forticloud wherein an interface is provided in the GUI of Fortigate which enables direct access to Forticloud without requiring a user to separately register for Forticloud. Furthermore Fortianalyzer and or Fortimanager act as network security analysis appliance wherein Fortianalyzer is operatively coupled with Fortigate to store and analyze network logs. According to another embodiment with Forticloud being an independently existing service a registered user who might not wish to go through the Fortigate and the Forticloud interface implemented therein can also directly access Forticloud.

According to one embodiment settings for cloud based logging service that facilitate implementation of the service on network appliance and enable access to the service can be integrated and configured within the network security gateway appliance by means of the cloud based logging service settings module wherein the service can initially be enabled or disabled depending on the user organization and their preferences. Registration of user for network security gateway appliance can itself be sufficient for accessing the cloud based logging service and the user does not need to undergo any other authentication or activation procedure in order to access the cloud based logging service. User present at a remote location can first connect to network security gateway appliance and subsequently gain access to graphical user interface of network security gateway appliance. User can then select access to the cloud based logging service by selecting the relevant icon on the graphical user interface of the network security gateway appliance and accordingly send a request.

It should be appreciated that the present disclosure allows integrating and customizing a cloud based logging service within a network security gateway appliance. By integrating and customizing an API of the cloud based logging service within a network security appliance a user can directly access the cloud based logging service through the network security appliance. In embodiments of the present invention registration login authentication and or activation steps are not required to make immediate use of the cloud based logging service. As cloud based logging service can be accessed on graphical user interface of network security gateway appliance any requirement of additional portals for accessing cloud based logging service can be eliminated thereby eliminating need for remembering the URL or domain names for accessing the cloud based logging service.

Logs and reports section shown on configuration screen of network appliance can include settings for logging and reporting of network log data that is requested for by one or more users. Settings defined for such logs and reports can be used to control and manage one or more of traffic log event log reporting log configuration monitoring among other attributes of network data logging. According to one embodiment upon clicking on the log configuration option setting configurations for integrating and configuring logging services can be displayed wherein logging services in an exemplary embodiment can include cloud based logging service and network analysis appliance service both of which enable logging of network data and retreival of desired log data as and when requested by a user. A network administrator or a user can select either cloud based logging service or network analysis appliance service or both for enabling logging of network data. If the network administrator selects cloud based logging service shown as Forticloud in an interface is displayed on the GUI of security appliance which when executed enables access to log information stored in cloud based logging service.

According to one embodiment a configuration option for making use of the cloud based logging service can be enabled by default and in case network administrator does not wish to use the cloud based logging service the administrator can go to log settings option and disable the cloud based service.

According to one embodiment configuration screen showing system event log can show logs from any of cloud based logging service network analysis appliance and system event log or a combination thereof based on the settings defined by network administrator. In an embodiment messages from cloud based logging service and from network analysis appliance can be displayed on a single screen with an attribute indicating the source of message. In an alternative embodiment messages from cloud based logging service and from network analysis appliance can be displayed on different screens wherein a menu can be configured to enable selection of source of the messages to be displayed. As illustrated in configuration screen shows the event log page for cloud based logging service named as FortiCloud in a pop down menu. Configuration screen comprises of two messages one with performance statistics received at time 17 51 09 and another describing successful logging in by an administrator from an IP address 172.18.7.1 received at time 17 51 01.

At block access to cloud based logging service is integrated within network security gateway appliance by automatically configuring access settings for the cloud based logging service. Access settings can help configure parameters such as type of access permissions granted time of access storage setting for retrieved logs among other parameters that help define access mechanism. In an implementation application programming interfaces APIs for cloud based logging service can be incorporated within the network security gateway appliance wherein the API of cloud based logging service can be accessed called by means of a representation such as an icon link button or the like presented within a graphical user interface of the gateway appliance. By configuring and integrating cloud based logging service within an interface of network security gateway appliance a user can view and access logs of cloud based logging service through the network security gateway appliance.

As APIs of cloud based logging service are integrated and configured on interface of network security gateway appliance cloud based logging service can be invoked and executed directly without requiring any user authentication or logging for using cloud based logging service. User registration once done for network security gateway appliance can itself suffice the need for accessing cloud based logging service on interface of network security gateway appliance thereby reducing authentication and simplifying the logging access process.

At block traffic log or event log for a network within which the network security gateway appliance resides can be transparently created within cloud based logging service. Using automatically configured access settings and treating cloud based logging service as the logging device network security gateway appliance can enable creation of network traffic log and system event log for the network at the cloud based logging service. Network security gateway appliance can be configured to access one or more computing devices present in the residing network and gather incoming and outgoing data for creating network logging data and system event log for the cloud based logging service.

In an embodiment network logging data includes real time log files downloaded files network content sent or received by computing devices schedules network analysis data configuration status data configuration history antivirus status reports generated based on log files among other information to be logged. In an embodiment network security gateway appliance can access and create network logging data and system event log automatically. In an alternative embodiment network security gateway appliance can access and create network logging data and system event log manually.

At block a request from user to access data associated with traffic log or event log can be received by network security gateway appliance wherein the request in an embodiment can be received at the interface of the network security gateway appliance. The request can include parameters such as devices for which logs are to be retrieved content to the retrieved from logs duration for which the logs are to be retrieved among other desired parameters. When a user requests access of network logging data from cloud based logging service the request can be in the form of selection the cloud based logging service on the interface of the network security gateway appliance.

At block responsive to the request received from user and parameters defined therein network security gateway appliance can transparently retrieve network data from the cloud based logging service. In implementation upon receiving the request from the user for network logging data and system event log the network security gateway appliance can access and invoke APIs of the cloud based logging service wherein the invoked APIs of cloud based logging service can be executed by network security gateway appliance to identify and fetch requested network logging data and system event log.

At block log data retrieved from cloud based logging service can be processed customized formatted and presented in the form of a report or log data on the graphical user interface of the network security gateway appliance. According to one embodiment network data can be retrieved from cloud based logging service in run time. According to another embodiment identified and fetched network logging data and system event logs can be represented in one or more predefined formats and then presented on interface of network security gateway appliance.

According to one embodiment network logging data and generated reports can be stored in memory of network security gateway appliance and can also be downloaded by users at a future date. In another embodiment network logging data and generated reports can be sent to a defined e mail address on a periodic or on demand basis.

The present method allows integrating and customizing cloud based logging service on network security gateway appliance. By integrating and customizing APIs of cloud based logging service on network security appliance user can directly use network security gateway appliance for access to cloud based logging service. The proposed method only requires registration for network security gateway appliance thereby eliminating the need for registration login authentication or activation steps to access the cloud based logging service. As cloud based logging service can be accessed on graphical user interface of network security gateway appliance any requirement of additional portals for accessing cloud based logging service can be eliminated thereby negating the need for remembering the URL or domain names for accessing the cloud based logging service.

Embodiments of the present disclosure include various steps which have been described above. A variety of these steps may be performed by hardware components or may be tangibly embodied on a computer readable storage medium in the form of machine executable instructions which may be used to cause a general purpose or special purpose processor programmed with instructions to perform these steps. Alternatively the steps may be performed by a combination of hardware software and or firmware.

As shown computer system includes a bus a processor communication port a main memory a removable storage media a read only memory and a mass storage . A person skilled in the art will appreciate that computer system may include more than one processor and communication ports.

Examples of processor include but are not limited to an Intel Xeon or Itanium processor s or AMD Opteron or Athlon MP processor s Motorola lines of processors FortiSOC system on a chip processors or other future processors. Processor may include various modules associated with messaging security gateway as described with reference to . For example processor may include one or more of mail reception module domain name validation module validity update module and send discard module .

Communication port can be any of an RS 232 port for use with a modem based dialup connection a 10 100 Ethernet port a Gigabit or 10 Gigabit port using copper or fiber a serial port a parallel port or other existing or future ports. Communication port may be chosen depending on a network such a Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN or any network to which computer system connects.

Memory can be Random Access Memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device commonly known in the art. Read only memory can be any static storage device s such as but not limited to a Programmable Read Only Memory PROM chips for storing static information such as start up or BIOS instructions for processor .

Mass storage may be any current or future mass storage solution which can be used to store information and or instructions. Exemplary mass storage solutions include but are not limited to Parallel Advanced Technology Attachment PATA or Serial Advanced Technology Attachment SATA hard disk drives or solid state drives internal or external e.g. having Universal Serial Bus USB and or Firewire interfaces such as those available from Seagate e.g. the Seagate Barracuda 7200 family or Hitachi e.g. the Hitachi Deskstar 7K1000 one or more optical discs Redundant Array of Independent Disks RAID storage such as an array of disks e.g. SATA arrays available from various vendors including Dot Hill Systems Corp. LaCie Nexsan Technologies Inc. and Enhance Technology Inc.

Bus communicatively couples processor s with the other memory storage and communication blocks. Bus can be such as a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI PCI Extended PCI X bus Small Computer System Interface SCSI USB or the like for connecting expansion cards drives and other subsystems as well as other buses such a front side bus FSB which connects processor to system memory.

Optionally operator and administrative interfaces such as a display keyboard and a cursor control device may also be coupled to bus to support direct operator interaction with computer system . Other operator and administrative interfaces can be provided through network connections connected through communication port .

Removable storage media can be any kind of external hard drives floppy drives IOMEGA Zip Drives Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM Compact Disc Re Writable CD RW Digital Video Disk Read Only Memory DVD ROM .

Components described above are meant only to exemplify various possibilities. In no way should the aforementioned exemplary computer system limit the scope of the present disclosure.

While embodiments of the present invention have been illustrated and described it will be clear that the invention is not limited to these embodiments only. Numerous modifications changes variations substitutions and equivalents will be apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as described in the claims.

