---

title: Dental restorative material
abstract: A dental restorative composition is provided that includes a polymerizable resin, a substantially translucent structural filler, a nanofiller having a mean particle size less than 100 nm, and at least one rheology-modifying additive. In one embodiment, the structural filler has a refractive index substantially similar to that of the polymerizable resin, a coarse particle fraction, and a fine particle fraction having a mean particle size greater than 0.1 μm and smaller than the mean particle size of the coarse particle fraction. The relative ratio of the coarse particle fraction to the fine particle fraction is in the range from about 12:1 to about 2:1 by volume, the particle size distribution of each fraction is essentially monomodal, and the D(90) of the fine particle fraction is less than or equal to the D(10) of the coarse particle fraction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09642782&OS=09642782&RS=09642782
owner: Kerr Corporation
number: 09642782
owner_city: Orange
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160119
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. Pat. No. 9 237 991 issued Jan. 19 2016 and entitled DENTAL RESTORATIVE MATERIAL which is a continuation of U.S. Pat. No. 8 822 564 issued Sep. 2 2014 and entitled DENTAL RESTORATIVE MATERIAL which claims the benefit of and priority to prior filed Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 491 089 filed May 27 2011 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety as if completely set forth herein below.

The present invention relates to resin based materials for use in restorative dentistry. More specifically the invention relates to resin composite materials suitable for simplified placement by the dental practitioner which materials exhibit paste like viscosity in an undisturbed state and a liquid like flowable viscosity when subjected to vibration energy.

Posterior and anterior tooth restoration is typically achieved by excavating decayed tooth structure and filling the resulting cavity with a paste like filling material which is then hardened by chemical or photochemical curing processes. Resin based dental restorative materials are becoming the material of choice by dentists and patients due to desirable esthetic properties. Tooth colored resin based composite materials are usually composed of dispersions of inorganic filler particles in a polymerizable organic resin matrix. Most commonly especially in direct restorations the restorative material is cured by exposure to actinic radiation.

Stress bearing restorations such as those involving the occlusal surface of posterior teeth require the use of mechanically strong highly filled restorative materials to withstand the forces resulting from mastication. Such restorative materials are typically highly viscous which makes accurate placement of the restorative difficult and highly technique sensitive. Inadvertently the cavity may be insufficiently filled and adaptation of the restorative material to the cavity walls may be incomplete resulting in gaps between the restoration and the tooth structure which can lead to increased sensitivity intrusion of fluids and bacteria and can result in continued tooth decay and premature failure of the restoration. Less highly filled flowable restorative materials on the other hand facilitate proper adaptation but lack the required strength for stress bearing restorations. Moreover since these less highly filled materials tend to flow under their own weight they cannot be shaped to conform to the original tooth anatomy.

When using highly filled restorative materials to restore a deep cavity the material is typically placed incrementally in thin layers. Each incremental layer is cured individually before placing the subsequent increment to counteract both polymerization shrinkage stress and low light penetration depth and thus incomplete hardening of the restorative. Restoring a tooth using the layering technique is therefore relatively time consuming and also increases the risk of leaving voids between the layers which could significantly weaken the restoration.

It is therefore desirable to provide a highly filled paste like restorative material having a high viscosity that can be lowered to a liquid like flowable consistency when dispensed into a cavity by using an external stimulus and that the initial paste like viscosity is restored upon removal of said external stimulus to facilitate shaping to the proper contour. Furthermore it is desirable for this material to exert low polymerization shrinkage stress to the restored tooth and to exhibit sufficient depth of cure to enable placement and adequate hardening of fewer but thicker layers of the restorative material. Ideally the entirety of such a restorative material required to fill the whole cavity would be placed and hardened in bulk.

It is known that particulate dispersions with high solids content of which dental restorative composites are examples typically exhibit shear thinning and in some cases thixotropic behavior and that their viscosity can be lowered through the action of vibrations including sonic or ultrasonic vibrations. For example U.S. Pat. No. 5 244 933 discloses dental compositions having a viscosity too high to be workable for the intended purpose which can be rendered workable by exposure to oscillations. When used clinically for restoring a tooth defect however such otherwise unworkable materials require the use of special oscillating equipment throughout each manipulation step which makes their use cumbersome and thus presents a disadvantage to the practitioner. Prior art paste like resin based restorative materials including universal composite materials such as Herculite Kerr Corp. Orange Calif. can be dispensed at a reduced viscosity through the use of special vibration assisted dispensers. For example U.S. Pat. No. 7 014 462 discloses a method and a device for introducing a dental filling material into a tooth cavity where the device subjects the filling material to the action of vibrations as is it injected into the cavity. However the ease and extent of viscosity reduction of a given material through the action of sonic or ultrasonic vibrations varies and is highly dependent on the material s composition. Moreover since vibration induced liquefaction is accompanied by heat generation due to internal friction simply increasing the power or duration of the vibrating action to improve efficiency can lead to a substantial temperature rise which could potentially harm the tooth. For these practical reasons the degree of liquefaction of prior art dental restoratives is limited and particularly for very highly filled materials is insufficient to achieve the liquid like behavior of a flowable restorative material.

In summary there is a need to provide a highly filled dental restorative material that offers high strength for load bearing restorations low polymerization shrinkage and high depth of cure yet readily liquefies to a flowable like consistency through activation by vibration energy to greatly simplify clinical placement.

A dental restorative composition is provided comprising a polymerizable resin substantially translucent structural filler a nanofiller having a mean particle size less than 100 nm and at least one rheology modifying additive.

In one embodiment the structural filler has a refractive index substantially similar to that of the polymerizable resin and comprises a coarse particle fraction having a first mean particle size and a fine particle fraction having a second mean particle size greater than 0.1 m and smaller than the first mean particle size of the coarse particle fraction. The relative ratio of the coarse particle fraction to the fine particle fraction is in the range from about 12 1 to about 2 1 by volume the particle size distributions of each of the coarse and fine particle fractions are essentially monomodal and the D 90 of the fine particle fraction is less than or equal to the D 10 of the coarse particle fraction.

In additional or alternative embodiments the second mean particle size is greater than 0.1 m and less than 1 m the at least one rheology modifying additive is present in an amount of about 0.1 to about 5 wt. the at least one rheology modifying additive includes an inorganic rheology modifying additive and an organic rheology modifying additive the first mean particle size is greater than about 3 m the D 10 of the course particle fraction is 1 m the D 90 of the fine particle fraction is 0.9 m the ratio of the structural filler to the nanofiller is in the range of about 20 1 to about 10 1 by volume the viscosity is paste like in an undisturbed state and the composition undergoes shear thinning to reduce the viscosity to liquid like in a disturbed state in which the composition is subjected to sonic and or ultrasonic vibration and or the Loss Tangent is 1 in a disturbed state in which the composition is subjected to sonic and or ultrasonic vibration.

The present invention provides a dental restorative material that exhibits a paste like packable viscosity in its undisturbed state that is readily reduced to a liquid like flowable viscosity when subjected to vibrations including sonic and or ultrasonic vibrations and exhibits one or more of the following properties high loading high mechanical strength sufficient to be suitable for load bearing restorations low polymerization shrinkage and high depth of cure sufficient to allow the practitioner to place and adequately harden the material in substantially deeper incremental layers. Advantageously the inventive material can be used to fill the bulk of a large cavity in one single increment thereby omitting placement and separate hardening of multiple layers of restorative material as required for prior art dental composites.

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention the restorative material comprises 1 a polymerizable resin 2 a substantially translucent structural filler having a refractive index substantially similar to that of the polymerizable resin 3 a nanofiller 4 one or more rheology modifying additives and optionally 5 other additives including polymerization initiators dispersants stabilizers pigments and the like. The structural filler 2 comprises a coarse particle fraction and a fine particle fraction having a mean particle size substantially smaller than the coarse particle fraction each fraction being essentially monomodal having a distribution such that the D 90 of the small particle fraction is less than or equal to the D 10 of the large particulate fraction as defined below and having a relative ratio of coarse particle fraction to fine particle fraction in the range from about 12 to 1 to about 2 to 1 by volume.

The present invention provides a dental restorative resin based composite material having some or all of the following properties the material in its undisturbed state exhibits a paste like viscosity which can be readily lowered without significant increase in temperature to a liquid like viscosity when subjected to vibrations including sonic and or ultrasonic vibrations high mechanical strength suitable for load bearing restorations high filler loading low polymerization shrinkage and low polymerization shrinkage stress and high depth of cure when polymerized using actinic radiation. By paste like viscosity it is meant that the material does not flow under its own weight and can be easily shaped by the dental practitioner to follow the natural tooth anatomy. By liquid like viscosity it is meant that the material flows under its own weight i.e. is a flowable dental composite as that term is understood in the art such that it intimately conforms to the contours of the surface to which it is applied without leaving voids between the material and the contacting surface. The inventive material can be used by a dental practitioner to restore a tooth cavity using a greatly simplified clinical procedure involving significantly fewer manipulating steps.

The inventive material comprises a curable resin preferably a polymerizable resin containing methacrylate monomers. Curing of the composite may be achieved by mixing two paste components containing a catalyst and accelerator respectively or by a photopolymerization process wherein the resins are cured when exposed to actinic radiation such as blue visible light. Photopolymerizable resins containing monomers other than methacrylates may be used in the present invention as may be appreciated by those skilled in the art such as cationically photocurable oxiranes for example.

To provide the inventive material exhibiting the desired rheology in particular to achieve a pronounced reduction in viscosity upon being subjected to vibrations the material advantageously exhibits a high degree of shear thinning. Without being bound by theory the extent of shear thinning can be maximized by employing an essentially uniformly sized structural filler. As can be appreciated by a person skilled in the art such a material exhibits less desirable handling properties including a tendency to flow under its own weight which would make shaping by the practitioner very difficult. Furthermore by using a uniformly sized filler the desired high degree of loading cannot be achieved since a high unfilled interstitial volume between the filler particles remains.

It has now been found that addition of at least one rheology modifying additive to a composition comprising a polymerizable resin and a coarse structural filler having an essentially monomodal particle size distribution significantly improves handling properties such that a paste like viscosity is achieved and the material maintains its shape without flowing under its own weight and can thus be easily shaped. Monomodal particle size distribution as used herein refers to a collection of particles whose size distribution curve particle count as a function of particle size displays one single maximum and when particle size is plotted on a logarithmic scale shows an approximately log normal distribution. Particle size distribution is measured by known methods including but not limited to dynamic light scattering methods. Advantageously addition of at least one rheology modifying additive imparts thixotropic properties to the composite paste which has been found to improve material flow when being subjected to sonic and or ultrasonic vibrations.

It has further been found that addition of a fine particle filler referred to as the fine particle fraction of the structural filler having an essentially monomodal distribution and having a mean particle size substantially smaller than the coarse particle fraction such that the D 90 of the fine particle fraction is less than or equal to the D 10 of the coarse particle fraction greatly increases the degree of loading by filling the interstitial spaces. D 90 is defined as the diameter where 90 by volume of the particles within the distribution have a smaller diameter. D 10 is defined as the diameter where 10 by volume of the particles within the distribution have a smaller diameter. graphically depicts a particle distribution of an exemplary coarse particle fraction having a mean particle size of about 5.3 m a D10 of about 1.58 m and a range of particle sizes of about 0.15 22 m. graphically depicts a particle distribution of an exemplary fine particle fraction that may be used with the coarse particle fraction of the fine particle fraction having a mean particle size of about 0.52 m a D90 of about 0.75 m and a range of particle sizes of about 0.15 1.5 m. graphically depicts the blended particle distribution for the structural filler combining the coarse particle fraction of with the fine particle fraction of . In another example a coarse particle fraction having a mean particle size of about 5 m a D10 of about 1 m a D90 of about 11 and a range of particle sizes of about 0.13 25 m may be used with the small particle fraction of .

It is advantageous to increase the loading i.e. the fraction of solids dispersed within the hardenable resin to an extent that upon hardening of the mixture a volumetric shrinkage of less than about 1.8 is achieved. In one embodiment the fine particle fraction is added at a ratio of coarse to fine particles of about 12 to 1 to about 2 to 1 by volume since this range still provides the desired high degree of shear thinning. Coarse particle fraction refers to the collection of filler particles falling within the size distribution having the larger mean particle size and does not infer any particular absolute particle size or range. Fine particle fraction refers to the collection of filler particles falling within the size distribution having the smaller mean particle size and does not infer any particular absolute particle size or range however for practical reasons the mean particle size of the fine particle fraction is greater than 0.1 m. The combined coarse and fine particle fractions are referred to herein as the structural filler.

By way of example only and not limitation the coarse particle fraction may have a mean particle size greater than about 3 m with the size distribution of particles including a D 10 of no less than about 1 m i.e. 1 m . Additionally the fine particle fraction may have a mean particle size greater than about 0.1 m and less than about 1 m with the size distribution of particles including a D 90 of no greater than about 0.9 m. By way of further example the structural filler may include a coarse particle fraction having a mean particle size in the range of about 4 7 m with the size distribution of particles including a D 10 of no less than about 1.2 m and a fine particle fraction having a mean particle size of about 0.3 0.7 m with the size distribution of particles including a D 90 of no greater than about 0.9 m.

The structural filler exhibits a particle surface that is sufficiently hydrophobic to increase compatibility with the resin and at the same time minimizes particle particle interactions. It is particularly useful for the structural filler particles to exhibit a refractive index substantially similar to that of the polymerizable resin such that RI filler RI resin about 0.05 and that the filler is substantially translucent. RI filler and RI resin are the refractive indexes of the filler and the resin respectively. The translucency of the filler is determined by dispersing 75 parts by weight of filler into 25 parts by weight of hardenable resin where RI filler RI resin 0.05 hardening the paste and measuring the opacity of the resulting mixture. By having a substantially translucent filler it is meant that a mixture prepared as described is less than 45 opaque. Both properties provide for high depth of cure when the material is hardened using blue visible light.

The coarse particle fraction may be selected from but not limited to borosilicate glass barium magnesium aluminosilicate glass barium aluminosilicate glass amorphous silica zirconium silicate titanium silicate barium oxide quartz alumina and other inorganic oxide particles. A chemical sol gel process may be used to manufacture the filler or in an exemplary embodiment a filler may be ground to the size range by a comminution step. The coarse filler particles may be surface treated with gamma methacryloxypropyl trimethoxysilane or more preferably with a long chain polymerizable silane having the general formula 

The coarse particle fraction may also be selected from a prepolymerized filler. For example U.S. Pat. No. 6 890 968 which is incorporated herein by reference discloses the preparation and use of prepolymerized filler particles suitable for the present invention. The prepolymerized filler particles are prepared by mixing an inorganic filler with an organic polymerizable resin and curing the mixture. The cured mixture is then ground to a desired size. The ground prepolymerized filler may be further classified to separate the desired coarse particle fraction out of the polydisperse ground prepolymerized filler to provide the prepolymerized filler with an essentially monomodal particle size distribution. For example the coarse particle fraction may have a mean particle size of about 30 70 m with a D 15 of 10 m as disclosed in the 968 patent. Optionally the classified ground prepolymerized filler may be surface treated with gamma methacryloxypropyl trimethoxysilane or other suitable silanes.

The fine particle fraction may be selected from but not limited to borosilicate glass barium magnesium aluminosilicate glass barium aluminosilicate glass amorphous silica zirconium silicate titanium silicate barium oxide quartz alumina and other inorganic oxide particles and may be of the same or different material as the coarse particle fraction. A chemical sol gel process may be used to manufacture the filler or in an exemplary embodiment a filler may be ground to the desired size range by an extensive comminution step. The fine filler particles may be surface treated with gamma methacryloxypropyl trimethoxysilane. An example for a fine particle filler particularly suitable for the present invention is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 121 344 which is incorporated herein by reference. For example the fine particle fraction may have a mean particle size of 0.62 m and a D 90 of 0.82 m as prepared by Method A disclosed therein or a mean particle size of 0.47 m and a D 90 of 0.76 m as prepared by Method B disclosed therein or a mean particle size of 0.36 m and a D 90 of 0.61 m as prepared by Method C disclosed therein.

To further increase the loading and to increase material strength the inventive material also comprises a nanofiller having a mean particle size of less than 100 nm. Generally the particle size distribution for a nanofiller is less than 100 nm with the largest particles being smaller than the smallest particles of the fine particle fraction of the structural filler. In an exemplary embodiment the nanofiller is added at a ratio of structural filler to nanofiller of about 20 to 1 to about 10 to 1 by volume. Structural filler refers to the combined coarse and fine particle fractions. In an exemplary embodiment the nanofiller comprises essentially discrete non agglomerated particles. Colloidal silica is exemplary. Fumed silica is excluded herein from the scope of nanofillers.

The rheology modifying additive may comprise an inorganic rheology modifier an organic rheology modifier or particularly advantageously a combination of both. One particularly suitable inorganic rheology modifier is pyrogenic fumed silica. Thus fumed silica for purposes of this invention falls within the category of a rheology modifying additive and is not considered a nanofiller. Exemplary organic rheology modifiers are small molecules or polymers capable of forming strong non covalent intermolecular interactions such as ionic or hydrogen bonding. Specific examples of organic modifiers include those disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 395 803 which is incorporated herein by reference. Alkylamide compounds in particular as disclosed therein are useful in the present invention. In general as set forth in the 803 patent alkylamides of the general formula RCONHR where R is an alkyl or alkylidine group and R is an alkyl group are useful as rheology modifying additives in dental restorative compositions particularly where an R or R alkyl group has 4 or more carbons and preferably 10 or more. For example the rheology modifying additive may be one or more of the following 1 a hydroxyfunctional polycarboxylic acid amide 2 the reaction product of from about 15 to 75 parts by weight of one or more liquid polyalkoxylated nitrogen containing compounds containing more than one hydroxyl group and which also contain a pendant aliphatic radical of 6 to 40 carbon atoms selected from the group consisting of tertiary amines and amides of secondary amines from about 8 to 90 parts by weight of one or more polycarboxylic acids and from about 0.5 to 20 parts by weight of one or more liquid diamines of a molecular weight weight average of about 2000 or less wherein the reaction is continued until the acid value is within the range of 5 to 14 and the amine value is within the range of 42 to 84 3 trialkylamidocyclohexanes such as trialkyl cis 1 3 5 cyclo hexanetricarboxamides 4 carbobenzyloxy containing alkylamides such as N carbobenzyloxy L isoleucylaminooctadecane 5 L valine containing benzenedicarbonyl derivatives such as N N terephthaloyl bis L valylaminododecane and N N terephthaloyl bis L valylaminooctadecane and derivatives of trans 1 2 diaminocyclohexane such as trans 1 2 bis dodecylamido cyclohexane the polymerizable derivative 1R 2R trans 1 2 bis 2 methacryloyloxy ethylsuccinamido cyclohexane and trans 1 2 bis ureido cyclohexane. It is believed that a rheology modifier of the type in example 1 above may be obtained from BYK Chemie USA Wallingford Conn. under the trade name BYK 405 and that a rheology modifier of the type in example 2 above may be obtained from Rheox Corporation Hightstown N.J. under the trade name Thixatrol VF 10.

In one embodiment the rheology modifying additives may be present in an amount of about 0.1 to about 5 percent by weight of the total paste mixture. By way of example and not limitation the rheology modifying additive may include a hydroxyfunctional polycarboxylic acid amide according to the Formula 1 provided in the 803 patent which may be present in an amount of about 0.1 0.7 percent by weight. Fumed silica may be added in addition to the organic rheology modifier for example in an amount of about 1 3 wt. . More than one fumed silica may be used for example each with a different average particle size for example a 20 nm fumed silica and a 40 nm fumed silica and or a combination of hydrophilic and hydrophobic fumed silicas.

The dental restorative compositions of the invention may further include a dispersant for example as described in the 803 patent. More specifically phosphoric acid esters including mono di and tri esters such as polymerizable phosphate polyesters may be used. Particularly phosphoric acid esters useful in the present invention are selected from the following a a phosphoric acid ester containing a carboxylic acid ester group and an ether group and b a phosphoric acid ester containing a carboxylic acid ester group and not containing an ether group. One example of a dispersant for use in the present invention may be obtained from BYK Chemie USA Wallingford Conn. under the trade name Disperbyk 111. Other examples include polycaprolactone modified methacrylate monophosphates such as polycaprolactone modified hydroxyethyl methacrylate phosphate polycaprolactone modified hydroxyethyl acrylate phosphate polycaprolactone modified polypropylene glycomethacrylate phosphate polycaprolactone modified glycerol dimethacrylate phosphate polycaprolactone modified dipentaerythritol pentaacrylate phosphate and polycaprolactone modified polyethylene glycol monomethacrylate phosphate. By way of example a dispersant may be present in an amount of 5 weight percent or less such as 0.5 3.5 weight percent.

The specimens were prepared by condensing the dental restorative composition in paste form referred to simply as the paste into a stainless steel mold with a dimension of 4 mm diameter 3 mm height and then photo curing the paste with a Demetron Optilux 501 curing light Kerr Corp. for 30 seconds from each side. The cured disk was removed from the mold and conditioned in 37 C. water for 24 hours before subjecting to mechanical testing on an Instron Universal Tester Model 4202 in compression mode with a crosshead speed of 0.50 mm minute. The peak load at which the specimen broke was used to calculate the CS expressed in MPa unit. Six specimens were tested for each formula.

The specimens were prepared by condensing the paste into a stainless steel mold with a dimension of 6 mm diameter 3 mm height and then photo curing the paste with a Demetron Optilux 501 curing light Kerr Corp. for 30 seconds from each side. The cured disk was removed from the mold and conditioned in 37 C. water for 24 hours before subjecting to mechanical testing on an Instron Universal Tester Model 4202 in compression mode with a crosshead speed of 10 mm minute. The load was applied in the diameter direction in compression mode. The peak load at which the specimen broke was used to calculate the DTS expressed in MPa unit. Six specimens were tested for each formula.

FS and E were measured from the same flexural test according to ISO 4049 standard. The specimens were prepared by condensing the paste into a stainless steel mold with a dimension of 2 mm 2 mm 25 mm and then photo cured from both sides. The cured disk was removed from the mold and conditioned in 37 C. water for 24 hours before subjecting to mechanical testing on an Instron Universal Tester Model 4202 in 3 point bending mode with a crosshead speed of 0.5 mm minute. The peak load at which the specimen broke was used to calculate the FS expressed in MPa unit. E was obtained from the slope of the stress strain curve in the initial linear region. Five specimens were tested for each formula.

VPS was calculated based on the measured densities of the material before and after light curing with the Demetron Optilux 501 curing light for 60 seconds 30 seconds each side . The density was measured using the buoyancy method in de ionized water.

Rheological properties were determined using a stress controlled dynamic oscillatory Rheometer DSR 200 Rheometrics Scientific Piscataway N.J. in parallel plate configuration with plate diameter of 10 mm and a gap of 1.0 mm at a constant frequency of 1.0 Hz. A low stress of 50 Pa was applied for 300 s and complex viscosity eta in Pa s and loss tangent were recorded. These values are indicative of the viscosity in the undisturbed state. The samples were subsequently subjected to high stress of 1000 Pa for 30 s and complex viscosity and loss tangent were recorded. These values are indicative of the viscosity when sonic or ultrasonic vibrations are applied. A Loss Tangent of less than 1 indicates solid or elastic properties that are desirable for the undisturbed state for purposes of shaping the composition to the tooth anatomy without the composition flowing under its own weight. A Loss Tangent of greater than 1 indicates liquid like properties that are desirable for flowing the composition through a delivery means.

In all the examples for making the single part light curable restorative material compositions a homogeneous resin mixture was made first by mixing all monomers with initiators and additives that are soluble in the resin mixture. The resin composition is provided in Table 1. Then the resin mixture was further blended together with various fillers to make the restorative composition in paste form. Unless otherwise indicated all parts and percentages are by weight in all examples.

Example A illustrates a composition having a large particle fraction and nanofiller but lacking a small particle fraction. While the composition undergoes shear thinning as indicated by the reversal in the Loss Tangent the Complex Viscosity is so high in the undisturbed state that it cannot be easily manipulated and may be considered too hard to be practically useful and is so high in the disturbed state that it may not or will not easily flow through a desired delivery means.

Example B illustrates a composition nearly identical to that of Example A but with a minor portion of the large particle fraction substituted by a small particle fraction in accordance with the invention. The Loss Tangent values indicate shear thinning upon vibration and the Complex Viscosities indicate good shaping and flow properties for the two states.

Example C illustrates a composition similar to Example B but with slightly higher total filler loading which is desirable and an increased content of the inorganic rheology modifier to enable the higher loading. Even with the higher loading the Loss Tangent values indicate shear thinning upon vibration and the Complex Viscosities indicate good shaping and flow properties for the two states. Additionally low volumetric shrinkage is obtained.

Example D illustrates a composition similar to Example B but with the quantity of small and large particle fractions essentially reversed i.e. higher quantity of small particle fraction and lower quantity of large particle fraction. The composition exhibited little to no shear thinning i.e. it did not transition to a liquid like state upon application of vibration.

Example E illustrates a composition similar to Example B but lacking the nanofiller i.e. the non agglomerated colloidal silica. The composition still undergoes shear thinning upon the application of vibration but the Complex Viscosities indicate that the material is too soft in the undisturbed state such that it will begin to flow under its own weight and will be difficult to shape.

Example F illustrates a highly loaded composition similar to Example C but lacking both the organic and inorganic rheology modifiers. The material was unacceptably soft in the undisturbed state such that it flows under its own weight and actually experiences shear thickening upon the application of vibration.

While the present invention has been illustrated by the description of one or more embodiments thereof and while the embodiments have been described in considerable detail they are not intended to restrict or in any way limit the scope of the appended claims to such detail. Additional advantages and modifications will readily appear to those skilled in the art. The invention in its broader aspects is therefore not limited to the specific details and method and illustrative examples shown and described. Accordingly departures may be made from such details without departing from the scope of the general inventive concept.

