---

title: Computer realizing high-speed access and data protection of storage device, computer system, and I/O request processing method
abstract: In a computer, a logical partition for calculation in which an OS and an application operate and a logical partition for storage for providing a storage function are constructed. In the logical partition for calculation, a device corresponding to a storage device is provided, while the logical partition for storage provides a volume. A memory space that can be shared by the both logical partitions is prepared, and management information describing a sorting destination or a sorting method of an I/O request issued by an application is provided in the memory. If the logical partition for calculation receives an I/O request from the application, the partition refers to the management information and sorts the I/O request to the storage device or the logical partition for storage. The logical partition for storage processes the received I/O request by the storage function and transmits the result to the storage device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09600185&OS=09600185&RS=09600185
owner: Hitachi, Ltd.
number: 09600185
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20160512
---
This is a continuation application of U.S. Ser. No. 14 583 883 filed Dec. 29 2014 which is a continuation application of U.S. Ser. No. 13 807 410 filed Dec. 28 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 935 448. This application claims priority from National Stage of PCT JP2012 007983 filed Dec. 13 2012. The entire disclosures of all of the applications listed above are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates to a computer which realizes data protection while bringing out access performances of a storage device a computer system and an I O request processing method.

In processing of transactions for important data a storage system provided with high data protection functions is indispensable. On the other hand in primary processing or search analysis processing capable of retry processing high speed is given emphasis in some cases.

At present high speed devices to be mounted on servers and storages including products such as PCIe SSD which couples an SSD Solid State Drive with a high speed protocol such as PCIe PCI Express and products such as All Flash Storage on which only an SSD is mounted have appeared.

As described in PTL 1 a high performance storage system utilizing the respective characteristics of both a low speed device such as an HDD Hard Disk Drive and a high speed device such as an SSD has been proposed. However in this case a storage controller makes a bottleneck and there is a problem that the performances of the high speed device such as the SSD cannot be fully brought out. On the other hand by directly coupling a high speed device to a server the performance can be brought out without going through the storage controller but there is a problem that storage functions such as a data protection function provided in the storage controller cannot be fully utilized.

Moreover as in PTL 2 in order to improve a Read performance of an application by utilizing a high speed device there is a method in which the high speed device is directly coupled to the server the high speed device is used for a cache application and the Write from the application is handled by writing data via write through in the storage device coupled to an external device so as to realize both the high speed access and data protection but it is not necessary to protect data of all the write data and there is a problem that the Write performance cannot be fully brought out.

The present invention has an object to provide data access means which can bring out both functionality of a storage controller and an I O performance of a storage device in data access to the storage device.

In the present invention in order to solve at least one of the above described problems a computer is logically partitioned and a logical partition for compute and a logical partition for storage are prepared. Regarding I O from the compute partition it is determined whether the logical partition for storage is passed or not in accordance with I O contents the I O is sorted and an access is made to a storage device group.

Moreover in the present invention in order to solve at least one of the above described problems a computer for compute and a computer for storage are prepared and regarding I O from the computer for compute it is determined whether the computer for storage is passed or not in accordance with I O contents the I O is sorted and an access is made to a storage device group.

According to the present invention a computer capable of flexible use according to user needs for a case where a high speed access to a storage device is needed and for a case where data is to be protected can be provided.

In the following embodiments since portions having the same structural parts and given the same reference numerals perform the same operations in principle duplicated explanation is omitted.

A first embodiment of the present invention will be described below by referring to . The embodiments are only an example for realizing the present invention and care should be taken that they do not limit a technical scope of the present invention.

The memory of the node is provided with a logical partitioning program an I O control program a storage control program a shared table and one or more OS Operation System applications . The logical partitioning program constructs one or more logical partitions on the node and the OS can be operated independently in each logical partition. The I O control program controls an I O request from the OS application . The storage control program provides functions including a management function of the storage device groups and a shared storage function of receiving and responding to a storage I O from inside the node or from outside the node a function of data protection data copying and the like. The shared table holds information to be shared by the I O control program and the storage control program . That is the memory comprises a shared portion including the shared table a portion for compute partition and a portion for storage partition.

Moreover the computer system is provided with a network a management computer a memory of the management computer a CPU an NIC and a management program . The management computer and the network are not indispensable and the management program may be provided in one of the nodes so that the entire computer system is managed for example.

The management program manages the entirety of this computer system. The management computer can obtain necessary information from the node and can control the node via the network .

Moreover a storage apparatus is coupled to the node . Here the storage apparatus is a shared storage apparatus such as a SAN Storage Area Network storage apparatus or the like. The storage apparatus is not indispensable. In this embodiment the storage apparatus is used as equipment including various storage functions by using the storage device as a storage medium.

In this embodiment in the compute partition the I O control program and the OS application are held on the memory and are executed by the CPU . In the storage partition the storage control program is held on the memory and is executed by the CPU . To the storage partition the storage device group is assigned. Moreover a shared storage section and the storage device group are assigned to and shared by both the compute partition and the storage partition . The shared storage section here is a part of the memory on the node and holds the shared table . In this embodiment the I O control program is present in the compute partition but the I O control program may be a part of the logical partitioning program .

A device management module manages a device configuration and a RAID Redundant Array Inexpensive Disk configuration of the storage device groups and assigned to the storage partition . The management of the device configuration here means management of whether or not the storage device can be shared by the storage partition and the compute partition the storage device is used in the RAID configuration or used as a device capable of direct access hereinafter referred to as a Raw access and this management information is held in the device configuration table . Moreover the device management module can instruct the logical partitioning program to change assignment of the storage device to the logical partition. Moreover the management of the RAID configuration means that the RAID level and the configuration of the storage device are managed and this management information is held in a RAID configuration table . The device management module is provided with a management GUI Graphical User Interface and an API Application Programming Interface .

The I O processing module executes cache control to an I O request from a host an I O access I O request to a RAID configuration module and an External storage connecting module and a response to a host. Moreover the I O processing is provided with functions specific to a storage apparatus such as copying snapshot backup mirroring tiering and the like. The host here is the compute partition in the node or another node or server outside the node provided with the storage control program.

The RAID configuration module executes conversion processing of an I O request to a logical block address and a physical block address and executes the I O request to the storage device.

The External storage connecting module comprises a logical volume corresponding to the storage device and the storage apparatus in order to make a Raw access to the storage device and the storage apparatus and executes the I O request to the storage device and the storage apparatus .

The device driver includes a driver of the storage device a driver for coupling to the compute partition and a driver of the I O device .

A column holds whether the storage device can be shared by the storage partition and the compute partition or not. This information is held or obtained by API on the basis of the specification of the storage device. A column identifies whether the storage device is used in the RAID configuration or in Raw access. If RAID is entered here it is used in the RAID configuration and if Raw is entered it is used in the Raw access. This table may be created by the storage control program the I O control program or the management program or may be stored in advance.

A column holds an identifier of a host at an assignment destination. The assignment here indicates that the volume is accessible from the host. Here the compute partition in the node is described as for example by combining identification information such as an identifier of a logical partition at an assignment destination as APP LPAR1 and an identifier of a logical volume to the logical partition LUN Logical Unit number and the like for example as a b c . . . APP LPAR1 a or the like. Moreover in the case of a host outside the node an identifier of a WWN or SCSI Name is held. Furthermore if there is no assignment destination none is described. This table may be created by the storage control program the I O control program or the management program or may be stored in advance.

A virtual device configuration module comprises a virtual device as a block device accessed from the OS Application . A detailed flow will be described in .

A mode switching module is provided with a function of switching a path of the I O access from the OS application to the storage.

An I O sorting module is provided with a function of sorting the I O access to the storage by mode. The detailed flow will be described in .

A RAID configuration module executes conversion processing of the I O request to the logical block address and the physical block address and executes the I O request to the storage device.

A device driver is a driver of the storage device a driver to be coupled to the storage partition and a driver of the storage I O.

Here a first path indicates a case where a path of accessing a storage device via the storage control program of the storage partition is used as an I O access path to the device. A second path indicates a case where the storage device is directly accessed from the compute partition . If the first path is used here the data protection function and the data control function and the like provided in the storage control program can be used. On the other hand if the second path is used the storage control program is bypassed and the storage device is directly accessed whereby the performance of the storage device can be effectively exerted.

Moreover the column holds the identifier of the device connected through the path in the column as an I O access destination. For example since the column for an I O of a virtual device B is the second path the transmission destination has a device identified as 2b.

A column holds a RAID level and a configuration of the virtual device. If Raw is entered it is not a RAID configured device. If a device with RAID configured is a target the RAID level and the configuration are described as RAID5 4D 1P or the like. This is equal to the column of the RAID configuration table .

A virtual device which the I O control program configures and shows to the OS application corresponds to the devices and the virtual device corresponds to the devices and and the virtual device corresponds to the device . Here even if the device includes a plurality of devices it is converted to the single virtual device by the RAID configuration module of the I O control program . The virtual devices and are provided with I O access paths by a first path and a second path and in the first path the I O control program executes the I O access corresponding to the devices and respectively while in the second path the I O access corresponding to the devices and is executed respectively.

Though not shown regarding the I O access from the device to the Raid area the RAID control is executed through the RAID configuration section operating on the compute partition .

At Step the virtual device configuration module determines whether there is a set of devices corresponding to the same storage device in the multiple paths. Here the virtual device configuration module obtains a set of devices whose storage device identifiers obtained at Step match between the device and in corresponding to the volume configured by the storage control program and the device and in directly corresponding to the storage device. In the example in the sets of the devices and and the devices and are applicable. If there is a set of the devices the routine proceeds to Step and if not the virtual device configuration module moves to Step . At Step the virtual device configuration module configures a virtual device. Here the virtual device configuration module configures a virtual device corresponding to the set of the devices obtained at Step . In the example in the virtual device is configured to the set of the devices and and the virtual device is configured to the set of devices and . At Step the virtual device configuration module configures the virtual device corresponding to the applicable device. In the virtual device corresponding to the device is configured. However the configuration of the virtual device at this step is not indispensable and the OS application may directly use the device .

At Step the virtual device configuration module updates the virtual device configuration table . Here the identifier of the configured virtual device is entered in the column and if the virtual device is configured at Step Yes is entered in the column while if the virtual device is configured at Step None is entered in the column . Moreover for the columns and it is assumed that a path according to default setting arbitrarily configured by a user or the like is selected. In the column the RAID level configuration is registered. If the RAID is configured for the target device of the virtual device created at Step and Step the RAID level and configuration are registered therein while if not Raw is registered. The case where the RAID has been configured is that the target column of the volume configuration table to the applicable device at Step is the array group AG1 or the like . At Step if there is an unconfigured device for which the corresponding virtual device is not configured for the device detected at Step the virtual device configuration module moves to Step .

Regarding the access mode to the virtual device such a case is expected that a user selects an access path of data in accordance with a use case using the data of the system in introduction of the system. The first path is selected if the user wants to use functions provided in the storage control program . The functions here mainly include snapshot backup disaster recovery thin provisioning data migration virtualization of storage tiers and the like. On the other hand the second path is selected if the user wants to effectively bring out the data access functions without using the above described functions.

At Step the I O sorting module moves to Step if the RAID is configured or to Step if not on the basis of the information obtained at Step . At Step the I O sorting module executes RAID area access processing by the RAID configuration module for the device of the second path corresponding to the applicable virtual device. Here the device of the second path is a device directly corresponding to the storage device. In the RAID area access processing the processing such as conversion of the I O access request to the physical address and the logical address of the storage device appropriate partitioning integration of the access processing to the target device parity calculation and writing in the device during writing access and the like on the basis of the RAID level configuration indicated by the column of the applicable virtual device of the applicable host in the virtual device configuration table . As a result reading writing with respect to the device in which the RAID is configured is realized. At Step the I O sorting module sorts the I O access request to the device of the second path corresponding to the applicable virtual device.

The Raw accessed VOL C is the Raw area on the storage device and has no RAID configuration. Thus if an access is made to the Raw area through the RAID configuration module data cannot be recognized correctly. Thus if an access is to be made to the Raw area as in this figure the access is made via the External storage connecting module so that the Raw area can be used while using the storage partition .

At Step the mode switching module waits for I O completion of the device driver in the compute partition . Subsequently at Step the mode switching module waits for execution completion of the I O request to the volume corresponding to the applicable virtual device in the storage control program . Here a completion notice is made by the storage control program and the mode switching module via an information exchange interface or the like. At Step the mode switching module changes the mode of the applicable virtual device of the virtual device configuration table to the second path. On the other hand at Step the mode switching module waits for I O completion of the device driver in the compute partition . Subsequently at Step the mode switching module changes the mode of the applicable virtual device of the virtual device configuration table to the first path.

The switching of the access mode may be dynamically changed by a discrimination program to be provided in the I O control program . In this case the I O control program collects performance information from access frequency from the OS application to the virtual device OS application the file system the driver or the storage control program and detects portions which become I O queues or I O processing necks. As a result switching is made from the first path to the second path for data with I O access frequency higher than a predetermined threshold value or data in which waiting for I O processing occurs more frequently than the others in the OS application the file system and the driver. On the other hand switching is made from the second path to the first path for the data with I O access frequency lower than the predetermined threshold value or data in which waiting for I O processing occurs less frequently than the others. As a result the access path can be optimized in accordance with data and higher performance improvement can be realized.

Moreover the I O control program provides a user with GUI specifying a threshold value for performing the above described path switching through the management computer . Specific examples of the threshold value include a threshold value as an index for determining the above described I O queue or I O processing neck and a threshold value of I O access frequency.

The method of using the RAID area and the Raw area separately has been described for the storage device groups and . Subsequently a method of moving the data stored in the RAID area and the Raw area to another area by means of data migration and not only presence of use of the storage control program but of further using the RAID area and the Raw area separately in accordance with use applications of the data will be described by using .

For example such a case is expected that data of processing with high importance placed on data protection such as online transaction processing and significant processing such as a core system is stored in the RAID area and the data is moved from the RAID area to the Raw area if a part of the data is used so as to execute data analysis processing or the like. As a result a more flexible system according to the use application of the data can be provided to a user.

Here if the data is migrated from the RAID area to the Raw area in the migration there is a problem that processing of the system cannot be stopped for the data migration. In a method described in in the I O control program the data temporarily held in a device for migration is selected as an access path so that the data is migrated without a stop and the above described problem can be also solved.

Moreover the data migration from the Raw area to the RAID area can be also realized by the similar method.

Though not shown the above described system and apparatus are provided with configurations required for executing processing as an information processing device such as input output devices represented by a display and a keyboard for example and processing at each section is executed by the respective hardware in connection. Moreover each processing can be realized by hardware by a processing section for executing that by forming an integrated circuit or the like. The same also applies to an embodiment below.

Embodiment 2 is a system in which a node is separated to each of a logical partition which is a compute partition and a logical partition which is a storage partition without using logical partitioning and is realized by separate computers and similarly to Embodiment 1 a computer system capable of flexible use according to user needs for the case where high speed access is desired to a storage device and a case where data protection is desired will be described.

As a result by separating the resources between the OS application and the storage control program interference of the resources can be eliminated.

The above described Embodiment was explained such that the I O control program has the I O sorting means but it may be so configured that a program for realizing the I O sorting means and related information may be introduced into a computer. Moreover the program for realizing the I O sorting means may be stored in a storage device in the computer or an external storage apparatus in advance or may be introduced into the external storage apparatus when necessary through a detachable storage medium or a communication medium network of wired wireless optical and the like or by means of a carrier wave or a digital signal on the network .

