---

title: Techniques to communicate messages utilizing a common telephone number
abstract: Various embodiments are generally directed to an apparatus, method and other techniques to receive a message directed towards a common telephone number, the common telephone number to enable communications between attendee devices and organizer devices. Embodiments also include techniques to determine whether the message is received from an attendee device or an organizer device based on a telephone number associated with the message and the device that sent the message. Further, in response to determining that the message is received from an attendee device, send the message to one or more organizer devices, and in response to determining that the message is received from an organizer device, send the message to all attendee devices or a specific attendee device based on information in the message.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09445244&OS=09445244&RS=09445244
owner: Bandwidth.com, Inc.
number: 09445244
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160425
---
Embodiments described herein generally relate to techniques to communicate messages between users utilizing a common telephone number.

Wireless communications devices allow users to engage in one to one communications such as real time conversations and sending and receiving messages. Conventional wireless communications devices possess limited capabilities for communicating with groups of individuals. For example a user cannot send a message to a group of individuals without inputting a telephone number for each individual s device in the group. This can be a time consuming process for a group having a large number of individuals. Thus it would be advantageous if a wireless communications device could send text messages to a group of recipients without inputting a telephone number for each individual.

Various embodiments may include a system apparatus and techniques to communicate messages between users utilizing a common telephone number. For example a common telephone number may be established on a permanent or temporary basis to permit users devices to communicate messages to one or more other users devices registered to receive a message. In some instances the common telephone number may be assigned to a device having a message proxy service that is capable of receiving messages via the common telephone number. The message proxy services may forward or send the message to one or more recipient devices. The device may determine the recipients based on a number of factors as will be discussed in more detail below.

In one specific example a device may receive a message directed towards the common telephone number the common telephone number may enable communications between attendee devices and organizer devices. The device may determine whether the message is received from an attendee device or an organizer device based on a telephone number associated with the message and a sending device. In some instances the determination may be made based on lookup performed using an attendee device list and or an organizer device list. For example the phone number of the sending device may be determined and used to look up whether the sending device is listed in one of the attendee device list or the organizer device list.

In some embodiments the device in response to determining that the message is received from the attendee device may send the message to one or more organizer devices. In some embodiments the message may be sent to all of the organizer devices listed in the organizer device list for example. In this example an attendee or a user of an attendee device may communicate the message to all of the organizers of a conference for example.

Further the device in response to determining that the message is received from the organizer device may send the message to all attendee devices or a specific attendee device based on information in the message. For example embodiments may enable organizers of a conference to send messages to one or all attendees of a conference by utilizing symbols as will be discussed in more detail below. Embodiments are not limited in this manner. Some embodiments may enable an organizer to send a message to multiple but not all of the attendees by utilizing multiple attendee identifiers for example. These and other details will become more apparent in the following description.

Reference is now made to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding thereof. It may be evident however that the novel embodiments can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate a description thereof. The intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives consistent with the claimed subject matter.

Further the system enables communication with a messaging system via one or more of a cellular network and an Internet Protocol IP network . The device may be communicatively coupled with a cellular network an IP network or both and enabled to wirelessly communicate one or more messages to the messaging system for example. Note that the messages may include SMS messages IMs or any other type of text based message as previously discussed. For example embodiments may include communicating the message in a cellular message format such as SMS or MMS with the messaging system as circuit switched data. Similarly embodiments may include communicating messages with the messaging system via the cellular network as cellular IP data which may be communicated from the cellular network and the IP network for example. In a third example embodiments may include the device communicating messages with the messaging system via the IP network which may be accessed by an access point for example. In the cellular IP data and IP data examples the message may be an IM in an IP message format or packet based format. Embodiments are not limited in this manner. Note that the device communicating messages with the messaging system may include both sending and receive the messages via any of the previously discussed techniques. Further although only illustrates a single device embodiments are not limited in this manner and as will apparent in the following description embodiments may include any number of devices to communicate messages.

In embodiments the cellular network may include infrastructure such as one or more radio service towers equipment and devices to process a wireless communication communicated as radio signals. For example a radio service tower may receive a wireless communication as one or more wireless radio signals from the device . The signals may include data destined from the messaging system based on a common telephone number for example. The radio signals and data may be processed by receiving circuitry converters modulators and so forth. Further cellular network may also include devices such as switches routers and other circuitry to process the received wireless communications. In some embodiments the cellular network may be communicatively coupled with or include a switching center such as a mobile switching center MSC or a short message service center SMSC . The switching center may receive and route communications to and from the device and the messaging system . For example the cellular network may communicate messages communicated as circuit switched data to and from the device and the messaging system via the switching center .

In some embodiments the cellular network can process and route cellular IP data which may include messages to the IP network . For example the cellular network including one or more of the switches routers and other circuitry that may be coupled with the IP network and may forward cellular IP data to the IP network via these switches routers circuitry and so forth. This cellular IP data may be processed by the IP network and communicated between the device and the messaging system via the IP service provider system .

In some embodiments the system may enable the device to communicate text communications via an IP network and provide messaging services via the IP service provider system and the messaging system . The IP network includes any number of networking devices and interconnects to enable device to communicate voice text and data communications. For example the IP network may include an access points modems routers switches gateways servers and so forth to provide an IP network such as the Internet and or any other local area or wide area network for sending and receiving calls and messages including but not limited to IMs. In some embodiments the IP network may include and or be coupled with a Bluetooth mesh network to communicate data and information between the device and the messaging system . The devices of the IP network may enable communication of information in IP packets for example. Embodiments are not limited in this manner.

In embodiments the system may also include an IP service provider system which may receive and route calls texts and other communications to and from the device and the messaging system . For example the device may utilize a common telephone number to send a message which may be routed by the IP service provider system to the messaging system . In some instances the IP service provider system may include information configured to perform these routing operations. The IP service provider system may also include devices coupled with the messaging system to provide messaging services for the device . In some embodiments the IP network IP service provider system and messaging system may be part of single network such as a local area network LAN . Embodiments are not so limited.

The messaging system may be embodied as a communication station a mobile station an advanced station a client a platform a wireless communication device a mobile computer a laptop computer a notebook computer a tablet computer a server computer a handheld computer a handheld device a Personal Digital Assistant PDA device a handheld PDA device netbook a mobile telephone a smart phone a mobile cellular telephone and so forth. In some embodiments the messaging system may be embodied as a server device server computer a blade server or any other type of server. In some embodiments the messaging system may be embodied in more than one device or server. Embodiments are not limited in this manner.

The messaging system may include one or more processors which controls one or more operations of the messaging system . A processor may be one or more of any type of computational element such as but not limited to a microprocessor a processor central processing unit digital signal processing unit dual core processor mobile device processor desktop processor single core processor a system on chip SoC device complex instruction set computing CISC microprocessor a reduced instruction set RISC microprocessor a very long instruction word VLIW microprocessor or any other type of processor or processing circuit on a single chip or integrated circuit. For example a processor may include a graphical processing unit GPU for processing graphical and video information in various embodiments. In some embodiments a processor may be connected to and communicate with the other elements of the computing system via an interconnect such as one or more buses control lines and data lines.

The messaging system also includes memory which may be one or more of random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory and hard disk memory. The memory is not limited to these memory components. For example the memory may include one or more non transitory computer readable storage medium s . These memory components can store data momentarily temporarily or permanently. The memory can store instructions and data for messaging system . The memory may also store temporary variables or other intermediate information while a processor is executing instructions.

In some embodiments the messaging system may also include one or more input devices and output devices . An input device may include one or more buttons a keyboard a keypad a touchscreen display a touch sensitive device a microphone a camera or any other device used for inputting information and data into the messaging system . An output device may be a speaker a haptic feedback device one or more light emitting diodes a buzzer a vibration device and so forth. In some embodiments the messaging system may include one or more displays such as a liquid crystal display LCD . In embodiments these and other devices may be coupled with the messaging system via one or more interfaces and communicate with a processor and memory via interconnect for example. An interface can be a parallel port IEEE 1394 serial port a game port a universal serial bus USB port an infra red IR interface and so forth. Interface may also be a network interface capable of communicating IP data and cellular data including but not limited to messages. In some embodiments the messaging system may include multiple network interfaces one of which is capable of communicating via the cellular network and another of which is capable of communicating the IP network .

The messaging system may include one or more transceivers coupled with one or more antennas for reception and transmission of information messages packets frames and so forth between other devices. In some embodiments a transceiver may include a transmitter and a receiver to allow transmission and reception of information and data between the messaging system and remote locations such as one or more devices via a cellular network and or an IP network . The transmitter and receiver may be combined into the transceiver . The antenna s may be attached to the messaging system and electrically and communicatively coupled to the transceiver . The messaging system may also include not shown multiple transmitters multiple receivers multiple transceivers and or multiple antennas. For example the messaging system may include a first transceiver capable of communicating via the cellular network and a second transceiver capable of communicating via the IP network . Embodiments are not limited in this manner.

In embodiments the messaging system may also include storage capable of storing applications information and data. By way of example storage may be disk drives optical storage devices solid state storage device such as a random access memory RAM and or a read only memory ROM which may be programmable flash updateable and or the like. In embodiments the storage may store applications and components such as a messaging component which may be executed by a processor and utilize memory for temporary storage of instructions and data. The storage can store other information and data such as an attendee device list and an organizer device list . The attendee device list may store information indicating devices registered as attendee devices for the messaging system and the organizer device list may store information indicating devices registered as organizer devices for the messaging system as will be discussed in more detail below. Note some embodiments may include a single list such as a registration list having both devices registered as attendee devices and devices registered as organizer devices. The devices may be identified as such in the single list. Embodiments are not so limited.

In embodiments the text messaging system may include an operating system not show such as Android Apple iOS Symbian Blackberry OS Windows OS Palm OS and so forth. The operating system may provide and environment and enable other applications such as the messaging component to operate.

The messaging component may include a framework and logic implemented in software hardware or both to operate as a message proxy and process messages for the text messaging system . The framework may include one or more application programming interfaces APIs in the form of libraries capable of interfacing with applications an operating system and other components of the text messaging system for example. The messaging component may perform various functions and operations including enabling communication of messages between devices such as device .

In some embodiments the messaging component may provide message proxy services to communicate the messages between the devices utilizing a common telephone number. For example a device may send a message using a common telephone number which may be received by the messaging system processed and communicated to one or more other devices. In some instances the message component may determine the one or more other devices to forward or relay the message based on a registration of the sending device and one or more other devices and whether the message include a symbol or keyword. In some embodiments the messaging component may enable registration and deregistration of one or more devices for the messaging system . As will be discussed in more detail below the use of a common telephone number by a plurality of users and devices may enable the communication of messages between devices such as from a single device to another device or from a single device to any number of other devices in a broadcast. These and other details will become more apparent in the following description and logic flows.

The logic flow may be one example flow to perform a registration process to register a device as an attendee device or organizer device to communicate messages. In embodiments a message may be received by one or more operations or processes of the messaging system at block . Note that the message may be received in the form of circuit switched data via the cellular network or IP data via the IP network or the cellular network . In one example the cellular network or IP network may communicate the message based on the sending device utilizing a common telephone number associated with the messaging system . In other words the messaging system may be associated or assigned a single or common telephone number that may be used by a plurality of users to communicate messages between devices registered in the messaging system . Note that the common telephone number does not necessarily need to be a number but may be one or more symbols or identifier that may be associated with the messaging system . Embodiments are not limited in this manner.

In another embodiment a user may scan an image such as a QR code. Upon recognition of the QR code the user s device may receive a prompt to register her device. The prompt may ask the user to input her telephone number to become registered as an attendee device. The prompt may be associated with an application executing on the user s device that is communicable with the messaging system .

In some embodiments the message may include any combination of alphanumeric characters and symbols. These alphanumeric characters and symbols may form the body or content of the message. Further the alphanumeric characters may form one or more keywords that may be used by the messaging system to process the message. Similarly one or more symbols may be part of the message and also used by the messaging system to process the message.

In some instances the messaging system may be able to determine a telephone number associated with the sending device of message. For example the message may include the sender device s telephone in a header of the message. In another example the messaging system may determine the sender device s telephone number based on information in one or more other messages communicated to the messaging system associated with the message. As will be discussed in more detail the keywords symbols and the sender device s telephone number may be used by the messaging system to perform various operations and processing.

For example the messaging system may determine whether the message includes a start keyword at block . In some instances the messaging system may compare data in the message with data stored in storage for example to determine whether the message includes the start keyword. The storage may store a number of keywords and symbols which may be used by the messaging system to cause various actions to occur. For example the start keyword may be any combination of alphanumeric characters and symbols that may cause the messaging system to register a device as an attendee device. The start keyword may be characters forming the word start for instance. However embodiments are not limited and the start keyword may be any combination of alphanumeric characters or symbols and may be defined by a user or administrator of the messaging system for example. The start keyword may be passed out to users and devices such that the start keyword may be used by the users to register devices .

If the messaging system determines the message includes a start keyword the device may be identified an attendee device and an attendee identifier may be generated and assigned at block . The attendee identifier may be any combination of alphanumeric characters or symbols that may be assigned to the sending device to uniquely identify the device. For example the attendee identifier may be user 1 for the first device registered as an attendee device. Embodiments are not limited in this manner.

Further the attendee identifier may be associated with the sender device and added to the attendee device list at block . For example a line item may be generated in the attendee device list including the sending device s telephone number the attendee identifier and in some instances an indication that the device is registered as an attendee device. At block the messaging system may cause a return or acknowledgment message to be communicated back to the sending device of the message received at block . The acknowledgement message may be communicated back to the sending device via the cellular network or the IP network based on the sending device s telephone number for example. In addition the acknowledgement message may include information indicating whether the registration was successful or not successful and the attendee identifier. In some instances the organizer devices may also be sent the acknowledgement message indicating that a user has registered an attendee device. Embodiments are not limited in this manner.

If the messaging system determines the message does not include a start keyword the messaging component may determine whether the message includes a secret code keyword at decision block . In some instances messaging system may compare data in the message with data stored in storage for example to determine whether the message includes the secret code keyword. Further the secret keyword may be any combination of alphanumeric characters and symbols that may cause the messaging system to register a device as an organizer device. In some instances the secret code keyword may be known by a user of a device prior to sending the message. For example the user may be an organizer of a conference or administrator of the system and may have preexisting knowledge of the secret code keyword used by the messaging system to registration a device as an organizer device. Embodiments are not limited in this manner. For example the secret code keyword may be distributed to one or more devices utilizing encryption techniques.

If the messaging system determines the message includes the secret code keyword the messaging system may register the sending device as an organizer device at block . For example the sending device s telephone number may be added to the organizer device list at block . In addition an indication that the device is registered as an organizer device may be added to the organizer device list at block . Embodiments are not limited in this manner and other information may be included in the organizer device list .

At block the messaging system may cause a return or acknowledgment message to be communicated back to the sending device of the message received at block . The acknowledgement message may be communicated back to the sending device via the cellular network or the IP network based on the sending device s telephone number for example. In addition the acknowledgement message may include information indicating whether the registration was successful or not successful. Embodiments are not limited and the acknowledgement may include other information and data and may also be sent to other organizer devices.

In some embodiments the logic flow may include sending registration instructions to the sending device of the message at block . For example if the message received at block does not include a keyword start or secret code and was not sent by a registered device the messaging system may return registration instructions in a message which may include the start keyword to enable a device to register. In some embodiments the messaging system may determine whether the device is already registered with the messaging system prior to sending the registration instructions at block . For example the messaging system may determine whether the sending device is registered or not registered prior to performing the logic flow . If the sending device is registered the messaging system may process the message as discussed below in logic flow .

The logic flow may be one example processing flow for performing message proxy services including relaying a received message to one or more other devices. At block the messaging system may receive a message from a sending device. In some embodiments the message may be sent to the messaging system via a cellular network or an IP network based on the utilization of a common telephone number associated with the messaging system .

At block the messaging system may determine whether the message includes a stop keyword. In some instances the messaging system may compare data in the message with data stored in storage to determine whether the message includes the stop keyword. For example the stop keyword may be any combination of alphanumeric characters and symbols that may cause the messaging system to deregister a device as an attendee device or organizer device. The stop keyword may be characters forming the word stop for instance. However embodiments are not limited and the stop keyword may be any combination of alphanumeric characters or symbols and may be defined by a user or administrator of the messaging system . In some instances the stop keyword may be passed to a device during the registration process and or via help instructions.

If the message includes the stop keyword the messaging system may deregister the sending device from the messaging system . For example the messaging system may remove the sending device from a list such as the attendee device list or organizer device list at block . The messaging system may determine which list the sending device is on by performing a lookup based on a telephone number associated with the sending device. Further and at block the messaging system may communicate an acknowledgement message to the device indicating whether it has been successfully or unsuccessfully removed from the messaging system .

At decision block the messaging system may determine whether the device that sent the message is an attendee device or not. For example the messaging system may perform a lookup to determine whether a telephone number associated with the sending device is listed in the attendee device list or not for example. Embodiments are not limited in this manner and other techniques may be used to make the determination.

The messaging system may communicate or cause the message to be communicated to all organizer devices at block e.g. devices registered as organizer devices if the message was sent from an attendee device. More specifically the messaging system may determine which devices are organizer devices by performing a lookup in the organizer device list and the send the message. Note that sending the message at block may include generate new message to send or sending a copy of the message. In some embodiments the messaging system may include the content in next messages to send to teach of the organizer devices for example. The new or copied messages may be an exact duplicate or modified to include more or less information as will be discussed in more detail below.

Moreover the message may be communicated to each of the organizer devices via a cellular network or IP network as discussed in . In one example the messaging system may determine telephone numbers for the organizer devices and send the message via the cellular network or IP network to each of the organizer devices via the determined telephone numbers. Note that embodiments are not limited in this manner and other identifiers may be used such as IP addresses media access control MAC addresses etc. to determine and or send the message. Thus when the messaging system receives a message from a device registered as attendee device the message or a copy may be relayed to each of one or more organizer devices. Thus an organizer of a conference symposium gathering etc. may be able to receive each message sent by an attendee.

At decision block the messaging system may determine whether the message includes an all attendee symbol. The all attendee symbol may be an alphanumeric character or any other symbol and may be known to a user of the messaging system . For example symbols for use with the messaging system may be communicated with the registration instructions or via help instructions. In some instances the all attendee symbol may be a single symbol such as or multiple symbols such as atd . Embodiments are not limited in this manner.

At block the messaging system may communicate the message to all attendee devices. For example the messaging system may determine telephone numbers for the attendee devices and send the message via the cellular network or IP network to each of the attendee devices via the determined telephone numbers. As discussed above other identifiers may be used to send the attendee devices the message. Thus in this example logic flow a message communicated by an organizer device may be forwarded or relayed to all attendee devices based on the use of the all attendee symbol. As similarly discussed sending the message to each of the attendee devices may include sending a copy or a new message based on the received message to each of the attendee devices. In some embodiments more or less information may be in the new or copied message as will be discussed in more detail.

In some embodiments the messaging system may determine whether the message includes a specific attendee symbol at block . The specific attendee symbol may be an alphanumeric character or any other symbol and may be known to a user of the messaging system . In some instances the specific attendee symbol may be a single symbol such as or multiple symbols such as AT . Embodiments are not limited in this manner.

At block the messaging system may determine whether the message includes an attendee identifier. For example the message may include the specific attendee symbol followed by the attendee identifier assigned to an attendee device during registration. For example the message may include user 1 indicating the message may be directed to a specific attendee device associated with attendee user 1.

If the message includes an attendee identifier at block the messaging system may send the message to the specific attendee device identified by the attendee identifier at block . In one example the messaging system may perform a lookup using the attendee identifier in the message to determine a phone number associated with the specific attendee device. For example the attendee device list may include a listing of attendee device s telephone numbers and associated attendee identifiers for use in performing the lookup. The messaging system may send the message to the specific attendee device via a cellular network or an IP network . Note that the message sent to the attendee device may be a copy or new message and may have more less information. For example the message sent to the specific attendee device may not have the specific attendee symbol and or the attendee identifier but has the remaining content.

Further and at block the messaging system may communicate the message to all of the organizer devices. As similarly discussed above the messaging system may utilize the organizer device list to determine organizer devices and communicate the message to the organizer devices via a cellular network or an IP network . Each of the messages sent to the organizer devices may be a copy or new message and may have more or less information. For example the message sent to the specific attendee device may indicate that the message is a response to a message sent by an attendee device.

With reference back to block if the messaging system determines the message does not include an attendee identifier the messaging system may communicate the message to the last attendee device to communicate a message at block . In some instances the messaging system may keep a log of all messages it receives and sends. The log may be stored in storage or memory and includes identification information such as a telephone number an attendee identifier and so forth to identify a sender of a message. The log may also store information such as a device type identifier attendee device or organizer device and a timestamp of when a message was received by or sent. In this example the messaging system may use the log to determine which device was the last attendee device to send a message that was received by the messaging system and send the attendee device the message at block . Note that one or more messages may have been communicated in between the current message and the last message sent by an attendee device. For example one or more messages may have been communicated by organizer devices. Embodiments are not limited in this manner.

Further and with reference back to decision block if the message does not include a specific attendee symbol the messaging system may determine whether the message includes a help keyword. In some instances the messaging system may compare data in the message with data stored in storage to determine whether the message includes the help keyword. The help keyword may be any combination of alphanumeric characters and symbols that may cause the messaging system to send help information to the device sending the message. For example the help keyword may be characters forming the word help which may be parsed from the message for use in the comparison. However embodiments are not limited and the help keyword may be any combination of alphanumeric characters or symbols and may be defined by a user or administrator of the messaging system . In some instances the help keyword may be passed to a device during the registration process or via help instructions. For example the help keyword may be provided to a sending device at block as part of an error message if the help keyword is not in message. However if the help keyword is in the message the messaging system may communicate help instructions at block to the device sending the message. The help instructions may include instructions keywords and symbols that may be used by an attendee of the messaging system .

In this example embodiment the message received at line may include the all attendee symbol followed by content which may be sent or forwarded by the messaging system to the attendee devices. Note that in sending the message to all of the attendee devices the messaging system may create one or more copies or new messages based on the received message to send to the attendee devices. In some instances the messaging system may remove the all attendee symbol from the message prior to it be sent to the attendee devices. Further and as previously discussed the messaging system may determine all attendee devices by utilizing a list such as the attendee device list . In some embodiments the information may be stored in other structures such as in a table data store linked list or any other data structure. Embodiments are not limited in this manner.

The message or copies based on the message may be sent to all of the attendee devices through at lines through where y may be any positive. Note that the messaging system may communicate the messages to the attendee devices through via one or more of a cellular network and or an IP network which may be based on telephone numbers or other identifiers associated with the attendee devices through determined in the lookup. In some instances the messaging system may remove the all attendee symbol from the message prior to sending it to the attendees. Thus the message sent to the attendees at lines through may have the format e.g. this is an example message sent to attendee devices. Embodiments are not limited in this manner.

The messaging system may also communicate the message or copies of the message to each of the organizer devices at lines through where x may be any positive integer. For example one or more messages may be generated with the content of the received message and sent to the organizer devices via the cellular network and or the IP network . In some embodiments the messaging system may include a broadcast identifier with each of the messages sent to the organizer devices through . the broadcast identifier may be a keyword such as broadcast or a symbol such as . The broadcast identifier may act as indicator to users of the organizer devices that the message was sent to the all of the attendee devices as a broadcast. In some embodiments the message may have a format of e.g. Broadcast this is an example message sent to organizer devices having a broadcast identifier. Embodiments are not limited in this manner.

At line in the attendee device communicates a message to the messaging system via a common telephone number. The messaging system may receive and process the message e.g. perform proxy services. In this example the message may include content but no symbols or keywords to provide a specific response to the attendee device . Thus the messaging system may determine to send the message to each of the organizer devices through in a broadcast. The messaging system may determine each of the organizer devices based on devices listed in the organizer device list and send them the message at lines through where p may be any positive integer via an associated telephone number for example. Said differently the messaging system may send the message to each of the organizer devices through via their respective telephone numbers. In some instances the messages may be communicated via cellular network and or an IP network .

In some instances the messaging system may communicate a copy or a new message including the content of the original message to each of organizer devices. The messages sent to each of the organizer devices through may also include an attendee identifier identifying the attendee from whom the original message was sent. For example the messaging system may perform a lookup in the attendee device list based on the sending device s telephone number at line to determine an attendee identifier for the attendee. The attendee identifier may be added to the message prior to the content or body of the text. For example the messages sent to each of the organizer device through may have a format of e.g. user 1 example message including an attendee identifier. However embodiments are not limited in this manner and the message may be sent using a different format. The attendee identifier may enable a user of an organizer device to determine the attendee who sent the message.

The messaging system may receive the message at line and process the message e.g. perform proxy services. In this example the messaging system may determine which specific attendee device to send the message based on whether the message includes or does not include the attendee identifier. When the attendee identifier is used the messaging system may perform a lookup to determine a telephone number associated with the attendee identifier to send the message. When the attendee identifier is not used the messaging system may send the message to a last attendee device that communicated a message. As previously discussed this determination may be made based on a lookup in a log file for example. The message sent at line may have the format e.g. this is a response example message. Embodiments are not so limited.

The messaging system may also send the message received at line to all of the organizer devices at lines through where q may be any positive integer. Further the messaging system may or may not send the message to the originating organizer device . In some embodiments the messaging system may send the message or a copy of the message to each of the organizer devices through including a response identifier. The response identifier may identify both the organizer device sending the response and the attendee device receiving the response. For example the response identifier may have the format e.g. Organizer device Attendee device . Thus the message sent to the organizer devices through may have the format e.g. Organizer device Attendee device this is an example response message sent to all organizer devices including a response identifier. Embodiments are not limited to these examples.

At block the logic flow may include determining whether the message is received from an attendee device or an organizer device based on a telephone number associated with the message and a device. In some instances the determination may be made based on lookup performed using an attendee device list and or an organizer device list. For example the phone number of the sending device may be determined and used to look up whether the sending device is listed one of the attendee device list or the organizer device list.

The logic flow may include in response to determining that the message is received from the attendee device sending the message to one or more organizer devices at block . In some embodiments the message may be sent to all of the organizer devices listed in the organizer device list for example. In this example an attendee or a user of an attendee device may communicate the message to all of the organizers of a conference for example.

In some embodiments the logic may include in response to determining that the message is received from the organizer device sending the message to all attendee devices or a specific attendee device based on information in the message at block . For example embodiments may enable organizers of a conference to send messages to one or all attendees of a conference by utilizing symbols as previously discussed. Embodiments are not limited in this manner. Some embodiments may enable an organizer to send a message to multiple but not all of the attendees by utilizing multiple attendee identifiers for example.

As used in this application the terms system and component are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution examples of which are provided by the exemplary computing architecture . For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor a hard disk drive multiple storage drives of optical and or magnetic storage medium an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Further components may be communicatively coupled to each other by various types of communications media to coordinate operations. The coordination may involve the uni directional or bi directional exchange of information. For instance the components may communicate information in the form of signals communicated over the communications media. The information can be implemented as signals allocated to various signal lines. In such allocations each message is a signal. Further embodiments however may alternatively employ data messages. Such data messages may be sent across various connections. Exemplary connections include parallel interfaces serial interfaces and bus interfaces.

The computing architecture includes various common computing elements such as one or more processors multi core processors co processors memory units chipsets controllers peripherals interfaces oscillators timing devices video cards audio cards multimedia input output I O components power supplies and so forth. The embodiments however are not limited to implementation by the computing architecture .

As shown in the computing architecture comprises a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors such as those described with reference to the processor shown in .

The system bus provides an interface for system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that may further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. Interface adapters may connect to the system bus via slot architecture. Example slot architectures may include without limitation Accelerated Graphics Port AGP Card Bus Extended Industry Standard Architecture E ISA Micro Channel Architecture MCA NuBus Peripheral Component Interconnect Extended PCI X PCI Express Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA and the like.

The computing architecture may comprise or implement various articles of manufacture. An article of manufacture may comprise a computer readable storage medium to store logic. Examples of a computer readable storage medium may include any tangible media capable of storing electronic data including volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of logic may include executable computer program instructions implemented using any suitable type of code such as source code compiled code interpreted code executable code static code dynamic code object oriented code visual code and the like. Embodiments may also be at least partly implemented as instructions contained in or on a non transitory computer readable medium which may be read and executed by one or more processors to enable performance of the operations described herein.

The system memory may include various types of computer readable storage media in the form of one or more higher speed memory units such as read only memory ROM random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory polymer memory such as ferroelectric polymer memory ovonic memory phase change or ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards an array of devices such as Redundant Array of Independent Disks RAID drives solid state memory devices e.g. USB memory solid state drives SSD and any other type of storage media suitable for storing information. In the illustrated embodiment shown in the system memory can include non volatile memory and or volatile memory . A basic input output system BIOS can be stored in the non volatile memory .

The computer may include various types of computer readable storage media in the form of one or more lower speed memory units including an internal or external hard disk drive HDD a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD to read from or write to a removable magnetic disk and an optical disk drive to read from or write to a removable optical disk e.g. a CD ROM or DVD . The HDD FDD and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a HDD interface an FDD interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The HDD interface for external drive implementations can include at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE 1394 interface technologies.

The drives and associated computer readable media provide volatile and or nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For example a number of program modules can be stored in the drives and memory units including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . In one embodiment the one or more application programs other program modules and program data can include for example the various applications and or components of the system .

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wire wireless input devices for example a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices may include microphones infra red IR remote controls radio frequency RF remote controls game pads stylus pens card readers dongles finger print readers gloves graphics tablets joysticks keyboards retina readers touch screens e.g. capacitive resistive etc. trackballs trackpads sensors styluses and the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port IEEE 1394 serial port a game port a USB port an IR interface and so forth.

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adaptor . The monitor may be internal or external to the computer . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices such as speakers printers and so forth.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wire and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wire wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks for example a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which may connect to a global communications network for example the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a wire and or wireless communication network interface or adaptor . The adaptor can facilitate wire and or wireless communications to the LAN which may also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless functionality of the adaptor .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or is connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wire and or wireless device connects to the system bus via the input device interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer is operable to communicate with wire and wireless devices or entities using the IEEE 802 family of standards such as wireless devices operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. IEEE 802.11 over the air modulation techniques . This includes at least Wi Fi or Wireless Fidelity WiMax and Bluetooth wireless technologies among others. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices. Wi Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.11x a b g n etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wire networks which use IEEE 802.3 related media and functions .

The various elements of the touch gesture recognition system as previously described with reference to may comprise various hardware elements software elements or a combination of both. Examples of hardware elements may include devices logic devices components processors microprocessors circuits processors circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits application specific integrated circuits ASIC programmable logic devices PLD digital signal processors DSP field programmable gate array FPGA memory units logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth. Examples of software elements may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs software development programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. However determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints as desired for a given implementation.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression one embodiment or an embodiment along with their derivatives. These terms mean that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Further some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not necessarily intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other.

It is emphasized that the Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to allow a reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein respectively. Moreover the terms first second third and so forth are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

What has been described above includes examples of the disclosed architecture. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components and or methodologies but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations are possible. Accordingly the novel architecture is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

