---

title: Method and apparatus for rail-to-road shipping
abstract: A power system for short trains. In an embodiment, an over-the-road tractor is configured with drive gears on a drive axle to interface with driven gear systems on a rail car. By utilizing the apparatus, a method for efficient delivery of goods in containers on semi-trailers may be achieved, thus saving considerable time, and reducing costs.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09623880&OS=09623880&RS=09623880
owner: SEA-TRAIN EXPRESS - LLC
number: 09623880
owner_city: Federal Way
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160503
---
A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The patent owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

This application relates to systems for providing delivery of semi trailers and trailers involving local railroad operations followed by transfer to roads for local trucking deliveries and to apparatus which may be employed to facilitate such delivery and transfer.

In the freight shipping business it is well known that in many situations the last few miles are both the source of delays and of extra costs as may be required for special handling of small quantities of goods by rail to remote locations. However since the delivery often involves the rail transfer of highway capable trailers to locations near final destinations subsequent connection with trucks is a rather labor intensive and time consuming activity.

As a result the use of rail to road intermodal system methods have largely been limited to long distance freight hauls. However in an ever more competitive shipping cost environment there remains a need for improvements which would provide cost savings and in particular labor hour savings especially for the last few miles required for delivery of goods. Thus it would be advantageous if novel cost effective methods were available along with novel apparatus for implementation of such methods for improving economics of ship to rail to road freight transfer.

The foregoing figures being merely exemplary contain various elements that may be present or omitted from a specific embodiment for an apparatus as taught herein. The figures have been provided in a way that illustrates at least those elements that are significant for an understanding of the apparatus and methods taught herein and for the alternate configurations thereof. However various other elements for gear system useful for driving a rail car and intermodal freight system components and methods of use thereof may be utilized within the teachings hereof and within the coverage of the claims set forth herein.

Unique equipment and methods for use in ship rail road intermodal freight systems are set forth herein. Some of the equipment useful in carrying out the method s described herein was previously described in U.S. Pat. No. 8 800 452 B2 issued Aug. 12 2104 to David KUN and entitled Railroad Freight Car Loading or Unloading and in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 15 144 517 entitled Method and Apparatus for Intermodal Container Handling filed on May 2 2016 the disclosures of each of which are incorporated herein in their entirety by this reference. The illustrations provided in this disclosure are directed at embodiments utilizing the most common tractor design configurations for over the road use in North America namely for pulling a semi trailer. By definition a semi trailer is a trailer without a front axle. In semi trailers a large proportion of the weight in the semi trailer is supported by an over the road tractor. Over the road tractors are generally equipped with large diesel engines and may be available with drive modifications to provide adequate power for short train rail operations.

Attention is directed to where an apparatus for powering short trains on rail is depicted. In an embodiment the apparatus includes a rail car which has a frame supported by a first bogie and a second bogie . The frame has a front a rear and a deck . The first bogie may include two wheel sets A and B one of which includes a first rail axle and a first pair of flanged main rail wheels and located on opposing sides of the first rail axle . As illustrated in the first bogie is located at or near the front of the frame . The second bogie may also include two wheel sets and one of which includes a second rail axle and a second pair of flanged main rail wheels similar to first pair of flanged main wheels and B illustrated in located on opposing sides of second rail axle . As illustrated in the second bogie is located at or near the rear of the frame .

As also seen in a first gear system is provided. The first gear system includes a plurality of gears see and as further described below configured to receive motive power supplied from one or more external rail driving gears such as external rail driving gears and located respectively between dual right wheels and and dual left wheels and on a first over the road tractor . In an embodiment the one or more external rail driving gear and are located in an elevated position e.g. vertically above but may be longitudinally displaced rearwardly above the first pair of flanged main rail wheels and .

As seen in in an embodiment the first over the road tractor may include an engine and a transmission connected in conventional fashion via driveline and differential to a first drive axle . Attached to the first drive axle are first and second sets of dual wheels and on the right and and on the left on opposing sides of the first drive axle . As just noted above the first external rail driving gear may be disposed between the first set of dual wheels and and may be recessed sufficiently that the first external rail driving gear substantially avoids ground contact during highway operations. A second external rail driving gear may be disposed between a second set of dual wheels and and recessed sufficiently i.e. of a sufficiently small outside diameter that the second external rail driving gear substantially avoids ground contact during highway operations.

In an embodiment as can be visualized from the deck includes apertures therein e.g. as defined by sidewalls on the right and on the left sized and shaped to accommodate therethrough the first and second sets of dual wheels and on the right and and on the left so that when said first over the road tractor is placed on the deck the first and second external rail driving gears and are located in meshing engagement with first gear system for supply of motive power thereto from the engine of the first over the road tractor .

As seen in in an embodiment a second over the road tractor may be provided. The second over the road tractor may include essentially identical components as the first over the road tractor . Such components may include an engine and a transmission connected in conventional fashion via a driveline and differential to a second drive axle some just mentioned components of second over the road tractor are not illustrated in the drawing figures but may be provided in a configuration substantially the same as earlier identified by identical reference numeral in connection with first over the road tractor .

Attached to second drive axle of second over the road tractor are third and fourth sets of dual wheels substantially the same as depicted in for first and second sets of dual wheels and on the right and and on the left on opposing sides of the second drive axle . Similar to the configuration just noted above for first over the road tractor in the case of a second over the road tractor a third external rail driving gear may be disposed between the third set of dual wheels and and may be recessed sufficiently that the third external rail driving gear substantially avoids ground contact during highway operations. A fourth external rail driving gear not illustrated but substantially similar to that provided for external rail driving gear shown in may be disposed between a fourth set of dual wheels and again not illustrated but substantially similar to that provided for of dual wheels and shown in and recessed sufficiently i.e. of a sufficiently small outside diameter that the fourth external rail driving gear substantially avoids ground contact during highway operations.

In an embodiment as can be visualized from the deck includes apertures therein e.g. as defined by sidewalls on the right and on the left but not shown sized and shaped to accommodate therethrough the first and second sets of dual wheels and on the right and and on the left so that when the second over the road tractor is placed on the deck of rail car the third and fourth external rail driving gears and are located in meshing engagement with a second gear system for supply of motive power thereto from engine of the second over the road tractor .

Attention is directed to where a first gear system is schematically and functionally depicted for ease of understanding the components appear spread out longitudinally as compared to the arrangement depicted in the embodiment illustrated in . A first gear system for receiving power from an external rail drive power source such as over the road tractor is provided. The first gear system is configured for receiving power via external rail driving gears and and transmitting power from the power source tractor to a first rail axle mounted on the first bogie . The first gear system includes a first gear set which may in an embodiment include at least two gears and mounted on the first rail axle . A first floating shaft is provided having a second gear set which may in an embodiment include at least two gears and and a third gear set which may in an embodiment include at least two gears and mounted thereon. As seen in the first floating shaft may be pivotably mounted by arms to the first bogie . The first floating shaft provides a pivotable connection to first bogie which allows said the first gear set to connect with the second gear set while allowing relative movement of the first gear set with respect to the second gear set as well as allowing vertical movement of the deck of the rail car with respect to the first rail axle . The second gear set and is disposed in meshing engagement with the first gear set and and is adapted to drive the first gear set and in response to power applied to the first floating shaft as received by the third gear set and . In this embodiment the first rail axle drives rail car in response to power applied by tractor to the third gear set and .

Returning now to a second over the road tractor may be provided to supply power from engine to rail car via a second gear system . The second gear system is configured for receiving power via external rail driving gears and and transmitting power from the power source tractor to a second rail axle mounted on the second bogie . The second gear system includes a fourth gear set which may in an embodiment include at least two gears and mounted on the second rail axle . A second floating shaft having a fifth gear set which may in an embodiment include at least two gears and and a sixth gear set which may in an embodiment include at least two gears and mounted thereon is provided. As seen in the second floating shaft may be pivotably mounted by arms to the second bogie . The fifth gear set which may include at least two gears and is disposed in meshing engagement with the fourth gear set which may include at least two gears and and is adapted to drive the fourth gear set and in response to power applied to the second floating shaft as received by the sixth gear set which may include at least two gears and . It will be understood by those of skill in the art and to which this specification is directed that even though only an operational schematic is provided in the elevation view of the various gear sets mentioned in this paragraph may be provided in at least two gears in the same manner as was depicted for the companion first gear system which was illustrated in . In any event in this embodiment the second rail axle drives rail car in response to power applied by second truck to the sixth gear set and .

In practice the apparatus described herein may be utilized in a method for intermodal transport of goods by rail where over the road trailers are utilized. In such methods the rail car may be employed to pull via coupling one or more freight cars FC not shown but for example may be as described in the patent or patent application referenced above . Freight cars FC are adapted for carriage of semi trailers or trailers for example may be configured for over the road transport of shipping containers when the shipping containers are mounted on a conventional over the road chassis. This in the instant method the over the road tractors or may be unloaded from the rail car by conventional means and then utilized at a specified end of rail destination for carriage of the over the road trailers to the final destination for the goods being transported. In a further refinement of the method the freight cars FC may be configured to carry over the road trailers and the over the road trailers may be organized by specified final destination and placed on said one or more freight cars FC. Then the over the road trailers may be removed from the freight cars FC at specified destination end or rail yard. Subsequently the over the road tractor or delivers over the road trailers to a specified final destination.

In the foregoing description numerous details have been set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosed exemplary embodiments for apparatus and method for driving short trains with over the road tractors and to methods of their use in rail road intermodal freight systems. However certain of the described details may not be required in order to provide useful embodiments or to practice selected or other disclosed embodiments. Further the description may include for descriptive purposes various relative terms such as surface at adjacent proximity near on onto and the like. Such usage should not be construed as limiting. Terms that are relative only to a point of reference are not meant to be interpreted as absolute limitations but are instead included in the foregoing description to facilitate understanding of the various aspects of the disclosed embodiments. Various components are described which may be employed alternatively yet be included in some designs or components for use in a particular situation. Accordingly the method s described herein may be utilized in whole or in part in various discrete operations in a manner that is most helpful in a particular circumstance. However the order of description should not be construed as to imply that such alternatives are necessarily order dependent or that use of various components is necessarily in the alternative. Also the reader will note that the phrase in one embodiment has been used repeatedly. This phrase generally does not refer to the same embodiment however it may. Finally the terms comprising having and including should be considered synonymous unless the context dictates otherwise.

Various aspects and embodiments described and claimed herein may be modified from those shown without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages provided by this invention and may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Embodiments presented herein are to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive or limiting. This disclosure is intended to cover methods and apparatus described herein and not only structural equivalents thereof but also equivalent structures. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings. Therefore the protection afforded to this invention should be limited only by the claims set forth herein and the legal equivalents thereof.

