---

title: Systems and methods for providing compensation, rebate, cashback, and reward for using mobile and wearable payment services, digital currency, NFC touch payments, mobile digital card barcode payments, and multimedia haptic capture buying
abstract: Provided are methods and systems for providing compensation for using a mobile payment service. The method may commence with receiving payment information associated with a user. The method may include generating a unique code encoding the payment information and providing the generated unique code to the user. The method may continue with receiving a deposit amount associated with a purchase related to the user. The purchase may be made via the mobile payment service. The method may further include receiving a notification about a further purchase of the user via the mobile payment service. The notification may include at least the unique code and a product barcode. The product barcode may be associated with the further purchase. The method may further include providing a compensation from the deposit amount to the user. The compensation may be associated with a payment amount associated with the further purchase.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09619794&OS=09619794&RS=09619794
owner: 
number: 09619794
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20160304
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 185 491 entitled Facilitating mobile device payments using product code scanning .

This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 815 988 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR MOBILE APPLICATION WEARABLE APPLICATION TRANSACTIONAL MESSAGING CALLING DIGITAL MULTIMEDIA CAPTURE AND PAYMENT TRANSACTIONS filed on Aug. 1 2015 which claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 034 509 entitled EFFICIENT TRANSACTIONAL MESSAGING BETWEEN LOOSELY COUPLED CLIENT AND SERVER OVER MULTIPLE INTERMITTENT NETWORKS WITH POLICY BASED ROUTING filed on Sep. 23 2013 and which claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 677 098 entitled EFFICIENT TRANSACTIONAL MESSAGING BETWEEN LOOSELY COUPLED CLIENT AND SERVER OVER MULTIPLE INTERMITTENT NETWORKS WITH POLICY BASED ROUTING filed on Sep. 30 2003 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 415 546 entitled DATA PROCESSING SYSTEM filed on Oct. 1 2002 which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This application relates generally to data processing and more specifically to methods and systems for providing compensation for using mobile payment services.

When customers buy product items from various merchants in these merchants retails environments such as retail outlets shopping centers stores etc. only a handful of payment methods is available to the customers. Typical examples include credit cards debit cards gift cards checks and cash. Each one of these payment methods has some drawbacks from cost and or convenience perspectives. For example credit cards bear substantial processing fees while debit cards require availability of funds and sometimes involve surcharges as well. Checks and cash transactions are slow and require additional processing and or handling. All these drawbacks interfere with retail transactions and add some level of dissatisfaction. At the same time a customer typically visits the same group of stores repeatedly and these payment transaction fees tend to accumulate. While some stores try to issue their own credit like account systems and employ banks to help them in this endeavor e.g. Sears Chase VISA many stores are simply too small to build and operate systems similar to the ones provide by the major credit card companies and or banks.

Furthermore a typical customer repeatedly visits multiple retail outlets. Requiring the customer to continuously carry multiple retail cards or other security transactional devices each one being specific to only one of these outlets may be difficult if not unreasonable. For example a typical customer may use a few gas stations e.g. depending on his location a few grocery stores e.g. depending on preferences a few electronic stores e.g. depending on current sales and promotions . Complexities introduced by store specific account systems may quickly offset any costs savings or inconvenience associated with traditional methods of payments and may make the overall experience even worse.

Additionally many stores and retailers provide bonuses and discounts for regular customers to stimulate customers to return over and over.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Provided are computer implemented methods and systems for providing compensation for using a mobile payment service. The method for providing compensation for using a mobile payment service may commence with receiving payment information associated with a user. The payment information may be associated with a mobile payment account of the user in the mobile payment service. The method may include generating a unique code encoding the payment information and providing the generated unique code to the user. The method may continue with receiving a deposit amount associated with a purchase related to the user. The purchase may be made via the mobile payment service. The method may further include receiving a notification about a further purchase of the user via the mobile payment service. The notification may include at least the unique code and a product barcode. The product barcode may be associated with the further purchase. The method may further include providing a compensation from the deposit amount to the user. The compensation may be associated with a payment amount associated with the further purchase.

The system for providing compensation for using a mobile payment service may include a processor and a database. The processor may be configured to receive payment information associated with a user. The payment information may be associated with a mobile payment account of the user in the mobile payment service. The processor may be further configured to generate a unique code encoding the payment information and provide the unique code to the user. Furthermore the processor may be configured to receive a deposit amount associated with a purchase related to the user. The purchase may be made via the mobile payment service. The processor may further be configured to receive a notification about a further purchase of the user via the mobile payment service. The notification may include at least the unique code and a product barcode. The product barcode may be associated with the further purchase. Furthermore the processor may be configured to provide a compensation from the deposit amount to the user. The compensation may be associated with a payment amount associated with the further purchase.

Also provided is a mobile payment service which enables a user to perform facilitated electronic payments from any location. For this purpose the user may register with the mobile payment service. During the registration the user may provide his financial information. The financial information may include bank account information credit card information debit card information gift card information prepaid card information insurance account information merchant account information mobile currency information digital money account SDK payment information in app payment information social networking payment information prepaid card information API payment information mobile account payment information mobile currency information and so forth. When required the user may activate a haptic control associated with a mobile payment service. The haptic control may be displayed over the video output of the device and overlap other applications or pages. The haptic control may provide for mode selection elements associated with a payment mode a messaging mode and a calling mode. Through the haptic control the mobile payment service may receive the selection of the payment mode via the mode selection elements of the haptic control from a user. Upon the selection context may be extracted from the display of the mobile and wearable device. Based on the context a payment transaction type which the user intends to perform may be determined. The payment transaction type may include a payment receiving transaction and a payment sending transaction. Based on the determining a transaction request may be generated using data of the extraction and the financial information of the user provided during the registration.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more aspects comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more aspects. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various aspects may be employed and this description is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

The following detailed description includes references to the accompanying drawings which form a part of the detailed description. The drawings show illustrations in accordance with exemplary embodiments. These exemplary embodiments which are also referred to herein as examples are described in enough detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the present subject matter. The embodiments can be combined other embodiments can be utilized or structural logical and electrical changes can be made without departing from the scope of what is claimed. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Various computer implemented methods and systems for providing compensation for using a mobile payment service are described herein. Expansion of computer networks such as Internet gave rise to a new type of trade electronic trade while proliferation of mobile devices e.g. cell phones smart phones and other similar devices that are capable of internet communications take electronic trade even further. A customer can shop online from any location using a mobile device also referred herein to as a mobile and wearable device. Therefore mobile payment services gain increasing importance.

While physical retailers provide discounts or other bonuses for regular customers a mobile payment service can motivate customers to perform online purchases though their service repeatedly in a different way. The mobile payment service may provide a compensation a rebate a cashback or a reward for using the service. The compensation can be proportional to the purchase amount. Additionally the compensation can be associated with a particular purchase or service to the user of the mobile payment service. For example the user buys a device via the mobile payment service. The user may be provided with a compensation for further purchases via the mobile payment service. The compensation may be provided until exhaustion of the price of the device i.e. the summarized compensation for further purchases may be equal to the price of the device bought by the user. In such a way the user gets a free device for using the mobile payment service.

Payments via the mobile payment service may be streamlined due to a haptic control providing quick access to payment controls. Furthermore the haptic control may enable further communication operations such as messaging mobile calls and so forth.

Additionally to facilitate using of the mobile payment service upon providing data on a credit or debit card or a bank checking account via a user interface of the mobile device the user may receive a unique code encoding payment information associated with the user. Therefore the user may provide the payment information of the user by displaying the unique code of a client device associated with the user. The unique code may be scannable by a device of a merchant such as a scanner a mobile device and so forth.

The user may scan product barcode and provide the product barcode to the merchant along with providing of the unique code associated with the user. The merchant may provide the product barcode and the unique code to the mobile payment service. Alternatively the user may provide the product barcode and the unique code directly to the mobile payment service. Upon receipt of the product barcode and the unique code associated with the user the transaction for the purchase may be performed by a provider of the mobile payment service.

Referring now to the drawings illustrates an environment within which systems and methods for providing compensation for using a mobile payment service can be implemented. The environment may include a user a client device network a mobile payment service and a system for providing compensation for using a mobile payment service.

The user may include an individual organization or entity registered in or associated with a mobile payment service . The user may purchase a product a device a detail part or receive a service from the mobile payment service . Purchases may be made via a haptic control shown on the screen of the client device . A price of the product the device the detail part or the service may be deposited to the system . The deposit amount may equal the price of the product the device the detail part or the service. When the user makes further purchases via the mobile payment service the user may receive compensation from the deposit amount. The amount of the compensation may be proportional to the amount of the further purchases.

The user may provide payment information of the user to the mobile payment service . Upon receipt of the payment information from the user the mobile payment service may provide the user with a unique code . The unique code may encode the payment information of the user . When making the purchase the user may scan a barcode associated with product the device the detail part or the service. The user may provide the scanned product barcode to the mobile payment service . The user may send a purchase request to the mobile payment service . The purchase request may include the unique code and the product barcode .

The mobile payment service may provide a haptic control on a display of the client device . The haptic control may include for example a one touch button. Via the haptic control the user may exchange messages with a recipient make calls and perform or request one touch and one scan payments. The messages calls and one touch and one scan payments are transmitted to the mobile payment service and further to the recipient or payee not shown via the network using the client device .

The user may communicate with the mobile payment service and the system via the network using the client device . The network may include the Internet or any other network capable of communicating data between devices. Suitable networks may include or interface with any one or more of for instance a local intranet a PAN Personal Area Network a LAN Local Area Network a WAN Wide Area Network a MAN Metropolitan Area Network a virtual private network VPN a storage area network SAN a frame relay connection an Advanced Intelligent Network AIN connection a synchronous optical network SONET connection a digital T1 T3 E1 or E3 line Digital Data Service DDS connection DSL Digital Subscriber Line connection an Ethernet connection an ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network line a dial up port such as a V.90 V.34 or V.34bis analog modem connection a cable modem an ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode connection or an FDDI Fiber Distributed Data Interface or CDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface connection. Furthermore communications may also include links to any of a variety of wireless networks including WAP Wireless Application Protocol GPRS General Packet Radio Service GSM Global System for Mobile Communication CDMA Code Division Multiple Access or TDMA Time Division Multiple Access cellular phone networks GPS Global Positioning System CDPD cellular digital packet data RIM Research in Motion Limited duplex paging network Bluetooth radio or an IEEE 802.11 based radio frequency network. The network can further include or interface with any one or more of an RS 232 serial connection an IEEE 1394 Firewire connection a Fiber Channel connection an IrDA infrared port a SCSI Small Computer Systems Interface connection a Universal Serial Bus USB connection or other wired or wireless digital or analog interface or connection mesh or Digi networking. The network may include any suitable number and type of devices e.g. routers and switches for forwarding commands content and or web object requests from each client to the online community application and responses back to the clients.

The client device in some example embodiments may include a Graphical User Interface GUI for displaying the user interface associated with the system and the mobile payment service . In a typical GUI instead of offering only text menus or requiring typed commands the system may present graphical icons visual indicators or special graphical elements called widgets that may be utilized to allow the user to interact with the system and or the mobile payment service . The client device may be configured to utilize icons used in conjunction with text labels or text navigation to fully represent the information and actions available to user .

The client device may include a mobile telephone a computer a laptop a smart phone a tablet personal computer PC a wearable device an eyeglass device and so forth. When the user makes one of further purchase a purchase request may be sent to the mobile payment service . The purchase request sent by the user via the client device may be stored and executed by the mobile payment service . Additionally the system can be informed about the purchase request and about execution of the purchase request . The system may then calculate an amount of the compensation and provide the compensation to the user .

The processor may be configured to receive payment information associated with a user. The payment information may be associated with a mobile payment account of the user in the mobile payment service. In an example embodiment the payment information includes one or more of the following bank account information credit card information debit card information gift card information digital money information and so forth. The payment information may be associated with a payment transaction. The payment transaction may include one or more of the following a face to face barcode scanning payment transaction a short distance Bluetooth payment transaction a remote long distance Internet payment transaction and so forth. The payment transaction may be associated with one or more of the following Unstructured Supplementary Service Data Short Message Service direct operator billing a credit card mobile payment an online wallet a Quick Response QR code payment a contactless near field communication payment a cloud based mobile payment an one touch payment an one scan payment an audio signal based payment a Bluetooth Low Energy signal beacon payment an in application payment a social networking payment a trade token payment a merchant token payment a currency token payment and a direct carrier and bank co operation.

Additionally the payment transaction may be associated with a third party application. The payment transaction may be associated with one or more of an application programming interface and a software development kit. The payment transaction may be further associated with one or more of the following a fingerprint touch recognition payment a fingerprint press recognition payment a gesture mark payment a voice command payment and eye blink payment a fingerprint swipe recognition payment and a nod payment.

Furthermore the payment transaction may be associated with a Near Field Communication NFC and the payment transaction may be performed for purchases online and offline. A payment associated with the payment transaction may be transferred from a pre paid account of the user or charged to a mobile account of the user or a bank account of the user. The payment may include at least a one touch and one scan payment for street parking in demarcated areas the payment being performed using a license plate transponder tags barcode stickers and reading the code from the display. A merchant may use uses a combination of the NFC and the code on the display for performing the one touch and one scan payment. The NFC may be used to establish radio communication with an external device by touching the housing of the external device or bringing the housing and the external device into proximity such as a distance of up to 10 centimeters. The processor may be operable to operate in three modes the three modes include an NFC target mode when the device is acting as a credential a NFC initiator mode when the device is acting as a reader and an NFC peer to peer mode. The payment may be further associated with advertisement tags two dimensional barcodes and ultra high frequency tags. The processor may be operable to be connected to a cloud. User credentials may be provisioned over the air. The payment may be associated with a payment application associated with the processor to control transferring of the payment and access payment readers.

The processor may be further configured to generate a unique code. The unique code may encode the payment information. In an example embodiment the unique code includes one or more of the following a QR code a linear code and a two dimensional code. Upon generating of the unique code the processor may provide the unique code to the user.

The processor may be further configured to receive a deposit amount associated with a purchase related to the user. The deposit amount may be equal to a price of the purchase. The purchase may be made via the mobile payment service. In an example embodiment the purchase includes a product a device a detail part a service provided to the user and so forth.

The processor may be further configured to receive a notification about a further purchase of the user via the mobile payment service. The notification may include at least the unique code and a product barcode. The product barcode may be associated with the further purchase.

In some embodiments the user may scan the product barcode in a retail shop. Furthermore the product barcode may be provided on a web site associated with the product the device the part of the device of the service which the user wishes to buy. The user may store the product barcode from the web site. When user wishes to perform the purchase the user may send a purchase request to the mobile payment service. The purchase request may include at least the unique code and the product barcode.

Thus the processor may receive the payment information associated with the mobile payment account of the user in the form of the unique code and the product information in the form of the product barcode. Upon receiving the notification the processor may be configured to provide a compensation from the deposit amount. The processor may be further configured to calculate the compensation based on the notification. The calculation may be performed according to predefined criteria. The predetermined criteria may include providing information on a bank checking account participating in affiliate marketing and loyalty programs participating in group buying offers made by the mobile service provider a mobile network operator a mobile device company or other merchants.

The compensation may be associated with a payment amount associated with the further purchase. In an example embodiment the compensation may amount to a predetermined percent of the payment amount. The processor may be further configured to deduct the compensation from the deposit amount based on the providing of the compensation. Therefore in an example embodiment the compensation may be provided to the user until the deposit amount exhausts. In some embodiments the compensation may be transferred to the mobile payment account of the user.

At least data associated with the deposit amount and the payment information may be stored in the database and may be accessible for user.

In some embodiments the system can also include a user interface not shown configured to visualize data associated with the mobile payment service.

As shown in the method may commence at operation with receiving payment information associated with a user. The payment information may be associated with a mobile payment account of the user in the mobile payment service. The payment information may include one or more of the following bank account information credit card information debit card information gift card information digital money information and so forth.

At operation the processor may generate a unique code. The unique code may encode the payment information associated with the user. The unique code may include one or more of the following a QR code a linear code and a two dimensional code. At operation the processor may provide the unique code to the user.

The method may further include receiving a deposit amount associated with a purchase related to the user at operation . The purchase may be made via the mobile payment service. In an example embodiment the deposit amount equals a price of the purchase.

The method may further include receiving a notification about a further purchase of the user via the mobile payment service at operation . The notification may include at least the unique code and a product barcode. The product barcode may be associated with the further purchase. Additionally the notification may include credentials associated with the mobile payment account of the user. Thus the user can be authenticated and associated with the deposit amount based on the notification.

At operation the method may include providing a compensation from the deposit amount. The compensation may be associated with a payment amount associated with the further purchase. In an example embodiment the compensation amounts to a predetermined percent from the payment amount. In a further example embodiment the method includes calculating the compensation based on a payment amount associated with the further purchase. For example the compensation can equal 3 of the payment amount of the further purchase. The calculation may be performed according to predefined criteria. The method may further comprise deducting the compensation from the deposit amount. Therefore the compensation may be provided to the user until the deposit amount exhausts. In some embodiments the user is allowed to use the compensation for payments in the mobile payment service only. In the result the user can receive the full price of the purchase for the further purchases using the mobile payment service. Thus the user can receive the purchase for free.

Additionally the method may include scanning the unique code from a screen of a mobile device associated with the user. Additionally the method may include scanning the product barcode from the screen of the mobile device associated with the user. The scanning of the unique code and the scanning of the product barcode may be performed by a provider of the product the detail the part of the detail and the service. Alternatively the unique code and the product barcode may be received by the mobile payment service from the user.

Additionally the method may receiving by the processor a first user input. The first user input may include touch engagement of a finger of the user with a display of the mobile device associated with the user. Based on the first user input the processor may initiate one or more sensors of the mobile device to capture multimedia to obtain captured multimedia. The method may continue with receiving by the processor a second user input. The second user input may include touch release of the finger of the user from the display of the mobile device. The processor may analyze data associated with the first user input and the second user input and in particular may determine time between the first user input and the second user input. Based on the analysis the processor may selectively select a multimedia capture mode or a payment transaction mode. If the multimedia capture mode is selected the processor may record the captured multimedia to a database to obtain recorded multimedia. A type of the multimedia being recorded may be determined based on the time between the first user input and the second user input. If the payment transaction mode is selected the processor may receive transaction data. The transaction data may include at least a payment amount and a recipient. Based on the transaction data user payment data and recipient payment data the processor may perform a payment transaction. The user payment data and the recipient payment data may be stored in the database. The first user input and the second user input may be performed on the mobile device the mobile device including one or more of the following a handheld computing device a smartphone a tablet computer a personal digital assistant a e textile item an activity tracker a smartwatch smartglasses a Global Positioning System watch a mixed reality device a computer mediated reality device a clothing technology device and a wearable device. The mobile device may have a band adapted to secure the mobile device on a human body. The human body may include one or more of the following a wrist an arm a neck a head a leg a waist an ear a finger and any other part of the human body. The band may be adapted to secure the mobile device under within or on clothing.

In an example embodiment the mobile payment service may be provided by a service provider. The mobile payment service may provide for making payments using a provider terminals or a compatible device. The compatible device may work with a Pay Wave application associated with Visa Pay Pass application associated with MasterCard and Express Pay terminals associated with American Express. The mobile payment service may be associated with making payments at contactless points of sale and in application associated with iOS operating system or Android operating system. Furthermore the mobile payment service may be associated with a two factor authentication using an NPC antenna and a chip that stores the encrypted payment information. The mobile payment service may be operable to generate a dynamic security code for each transaction. Additionally the mobile payment service may be operable to link a payment card associated with the user to the mobile payment service. The payment card may be added by indicating a user bank account by the user taking a photo of the payment card and entering the payment card information manually by the user.

At operation the processor may generate a unique code. The unique code may encode the payment information. The unique code may include one or more of the following a QR code a linear code and a two dimensional code. At operation the processor may provide the unique code to the user.

The method may further include receiving a deposit amount associated with a purchase related to the user at operation . The purchase may be made via the mobile payment service. In an example embodiment the deposit amount equals a price of the purchase. The purchase may include a product a device a detail part a service provided to the user and so forth.

The method may continue with operation at which a notification about one or more further purchases of the user via the mobile payment service may be received. The notification may include at least the unique code and one or more product barcodes. The product barcode may be associated with the one or more further purchases.

At operation one or more compensations may be provided to the user. The one or more compensations may associated with a payment amount associated with the one or more further purchases.

The method may further include summarizing the one or more compensations to obtain a summarized compensation at operation . At operation the processor may determine that the summarized compensation is equal to the deposit amount.

Base on the determining a free product or a free service may be provided to the user at operation . In an example embodiment the free product is provided by a provider of the mobile payment service. A cost of the free product or the free service may be equal to the deposit amount.

In an example embodiment the compensation may include one or more of the following loyalty credits provided for participation in loyalty programs a repayment of a percentage of an amount of purchases made with a mobile payment service provider a refund of bank services a discount on mobile services free mobile services zero monthly fees free bank services free insurance services saved payment card charges and so forth.

The user transfers a payment amount for the device . The payment amount is stored as a deposit amount in the system for providing compensation for using mobile payment service.

Based on the notification the system calculates the compensation for the further purchase and transfers the compensation to the account associated with the user . The compensation is calculated based on predetermined criteria. For example the compensation can equal 3 percent of the payment amount of the further purchase.

The compensation may include providing loyalty credits for participation in loyalty programs repaying a percentage of an amount of purchases made with the mobile payment service provider providing a refund of bank services and or a discount on mobile services providing zero monthly fee or free bank services. In certain embodiments the compensation may also include saved payment card charges when providing data related to a bank checking account. A high amount of compensation may entitle the customer to receive free insurance services and or free bank services from a bank of the mobile payment service provider.

Purchases via the mobile payment service as well as other operations may be performed using a haptic control hovering over output of a client device. Operations made using the haptic control will be described with reference to .

The transaction request may be sent without requesting financial information authorizing or confirmations from the user. However in some embodiments the user with the help of options of the mobile payment service may select to receive a confirmation request before sending the transaction request. When this option is selected a confirmation request associated with the transaction request may be provided to the user on the display before the transaction request is transmitted.

Furthermore the user may select a messaging mode via the mode selection elements of the haptic control . Then the processor may provide a messaging interface on the display of the mobile and wearable device. When a message and a choice of a recipient is received from the user via the messaging interface the processor may send the message to the recipient via a data network.

If the calling mode is selected via the haptic control the processor may provide a calling interface on the display of the mobile and wearable device. Via the calling interface the processor may receive a call recipient from the user and initiate a data network call to the call recipient. The data network call may be made via a free Voice over IP VoIP service a free Over the Top OTT service and so forth.

As shown in the method may commence at operation with providing a haptic control on the display of the mobile and wearable device. The haptic control includes mode selection elements associated with a payment mode a messaging mode and a calling mode. The haptic control may be providing on receiving a request to initiate the haptic control from the user. To initiate the haptic control the user may be prompted to provide a password a code a voice command biometric data and so forth. The user may interact with the haptic control by touch to a specific area of the haptic control associated with one of the mode selection elements. Additionally the selection of the activity mode may include a voice command a move command and so forth. When the user touches one of the mode selection elements the system determines which of the elements was touched.

At operation a selection of the payment mode via the mode selection elements of the haptic control is received from the user. Upon the selection context is extracted from the display at operation . Information from the screen in view on the mobile and wearable device and be captured and analyzed to identify the context. Based on the context a payment transaction type to be performed may be determined at operation . Thus it may be determined whether the user is performing a payment or requesting a payment based on the information on the display of the mobile and wearable device.

Based on the determining of the payment transaction type a transaction request associated with the determined payment transaction type may be sent at operation . The transaction request may include the extracted information and or financial data and authorizing data associated with the user. The financial data and authorizing data may be provided by the user during registration and stored by the mobile payment service. The financial information may include bank account information credit card information debit card information gift card information prepaid card information insurance account information merchant account information mobile currency information digital money and so forth. The transaction request may be sent to a financial operation for processing. The financial organization performing the payment may be a bank a credit company a virtual currency system and so forth.

Furthermore if the messaging mode is selected via the haptic control the mobile payments service of may provide to the user a messaging interface on the mobile and wearable device. Through the messaging interface a message may be received from the user and sent to a recipient via a data network. The message may include a text an audio a video and geographical data. Additionally messages may be received from other users. The haptic control may notify the user that one or more messages were received. The user may activate the messaging interface to read and or reply to the messages.

If the calling mode is selected a calling interface may be provided to the user. The user may select a call recipient in his contacts and make a call request. The mobile payments service may receive the call request from the user. Based on the call request the mobile payments service may initiate a data network call. The call may include an audio call a video call a holographic video call and so forth. The call may be performed via a Voice over IP VoIP service a free Over the Top OTT service and so forth. The free VoIP service and the free OTT service include voice communication fax text messaging voice messaging video communication and multimedia transmission. In various embodiments the free VoIP service and the free OTT service are provided via Wi Fi 3G network 4G network 5G network 6G network or upper.

In an example embodiment the mobile payments service may authenticate an identity of the user. The authentication may include one or more of the following a password authentication a voice authentication and a biometric authentication. The biometric authentication may include one or more of a fingerprint authentication an iris pattern authentication a heartbeat authentication a vein pattern identification and so forth. The vein pattern identification may be performed using scanning of one or more of the following a palm vein pattern a wrist vein pattern a hand vein pattern a leg vein pattern a foot vein pattern a neck vein pattern and a head vein pattern of the user. The fingerprint authentication may include scanning fingerprints swiped across one or more or the following a screen of the mobile and wearable device a button of the mobile and wearable device a rear panel of the mobile and wearable device and so forth.

In an example embodiment the mobile payments service may receive based on the determining of the payment transaction type which the user intends to perform data of a payment card associated with the user. The data of the payment card may be received by scanning the payment card. The payment card may be scanned by a camera of the mobile and wearable device by positioning the payment card in proximity to camera of the mobile and wearable device. The payment card may be associated with one or more of the following a bank account of the user a virtual currency account of the user and the like. The bank account of the user and the virtual currency account of the user may be linked to a mobile and wearable device number.

In an example embodiment the data of the payment card may be stored into a cloud network. In some embodiments the data of the payment card may be stored in the cloud network as a token.

In some embodiments the transaction request may include a unique code associated with the user. The unique code may encode at least bank account information of the user and a payment amount. In further embodiments the unique code may be displayed on the mobile and wearable device for scanning by the merchant.

In a further example embodiment the mobile payments service may receive product data based on scanning of the product data by the mobile and wearable device associated with the user. The product data may be associated with one or more products. Upon receiving of the scanning the mobile payments service may calculate a total price for the one or more products. Furthermore merchant data may be received. In some embodiments the merchant data may be received by scanning a code associated with the merchant. A scanned code associated with the merchant may include at least a QR code associated with the merchant. The QR code associated with the merchant can be stored in the mobile and wearable device of the user. The QR code associated with the merchant may encode at least a merchant account number. In further embodiments the transaction request may comprise at least the total price and the merchant data.

The mobile payments service may determine that the total price for the one or more products exceeds a predetermined price. Based on the determining the mobile payments service may send a notification to a merchant.

In some embodiments the transaction request may include at least a user phone number. In such a case the payment sending transaction may include sending a payment from a phone account of the user to a merchant account.

In further embodiments the payment receiving transaction and the payment sending transaction may be performed by pairing of the mobile and wearable device and a merchant device using a reader. The reader may be connected to the merchant device and plugged into the mobile and wearable device.

In some embodiments the mobile application associated with the mobile and wearable device and the mobile payments service may be integrated into a software development kit and an operating system of the mobile and wearable device. The operating system may be selected from iOS Android and Windows Phone. Upon launch of the mobile application by the user the user may be prompted to log in and asked to provide a consent that the mobile application may initiate future payments on behalf of the user. Additionally during further purchases the mobile application may be launched by default without a need for a further action such as entering a login and a password by the user from the user to initiate launching of the mobile application. The mobile application may associated with performing payments and buying products or services in the Internet.

Thus one touch and one scan payment and buying features may improve buying experience for customers and merchant. Additionally for the user that pays and buys products and services using the mobile application associated with one touch and one scan payment and buying the number of taps and times the user is required to enter a user login identification number and a password for future purchases may be minimized.

In some embodiments upon launching of the at least one mobile application by the user a list of payment cards may be provided for selection by the user. The payment cards may be associated with one or more of the following a bank account a bank mobile account a service provider account a digital currency a universal national currency token interface a national digital currency an electric payment card and the like. Upon the selection a token may be sent to the mobile and wearable device. The token may be associated with a selected payment card and further payments may be performed using the token.

In further embodiments the processor of the mobile payments service may be further configured to download applications receive and set text video and multimedia data.

The transaction request may be generated using data of a mobile application or a page from which the payment mode is activated. For example the user may activate the payment mode from a purchase page of an online store. The payment may be immediately initiated without requesting further details. Data of a payment recipient and a payment amount may be received from the actual page or application and financial information of the user may be stored in the database of the mobile payment service. The user financial information may be provided by the user during registration with the mobile payment service and may include one or more of the following bank account information credit card information debit card information gift card information prepaid card information insurance account information merchant account information mobile currency information digital money and so forth. Online payments can be secured by two factor authorization. One of the factors may be authorization on the integrated interface initiation and the other factor may include locating the mobile and wearable device associated with the user and comparing the location with the location where the payment is requested.

Alternatively the transaction request may be generated using data of a page associated with billing. In that case the mobile payment service may generate a payment request using information extracted from the page as well as the financial information of the user stored in the mobile payment service .

Transactions can be associated with transactional payments based on Unstructured Supplementary Service Data USSD or Short Message Service SMS direct operator billing credit card mobile payments online wallets QR code payments contactless NFC cloud based mobile payments audio signal based payment Bluetooth Low Energy BLE signal beacon payment in application payment SDK payment API payment social networking payment and direct carrier bank co operation.

Contactless NFC may be used to receive data for the payment request. For example when the one touch and one scan payment mode is selected the user may make a payment for purchases in physical stores or transportation services. The mobile and wearable device may be equipped with a smart card. When a user waves the mobile and wearable device near a radar module a payment is made. In some cases the payment may require authentication. The NFC payment could be deducted from a pre paid account or changed to a mobile or band account directly. NFC payment may include displaying a barcode on the mobile device screen for mobile payment. The payment barcode can include one or more of the following a linear barcode a two dimensional barcode a three dimensional barcode a machine readable code and so forth.

The audio channel of the mobile phone may be another wireless interface that is used to receive data for a transaction request. Chip ultra sound and acoustic features of the mobile and wearable device may support mobile payments. Near sound data transfer NDST data over voice and NFC produce audio signatures that the mobile phone can pick up to enable electronic transactions.

In some embodiments the payment receiving transaction and the payment sending transaction are performed using a NFC. The NFC may be used to pair the mobile and wearable device and a merchant device by bringing the mobile and wearable device into proximity to the merchant device. The mobile and wearable device and the merchant device may be connected to a cloud network. The financial data and authorizing data associated with the user may be stored in the cloud network. In an example embodiment upon pairing the mobile and wearable device with the merchant device a Bluetooth connection between the mobile and wearable device and the merchant device may be established. The payment receiving transaction and the payment sending transaction may include at least a pear to pear transaction.

In some embodiments a beacon mobile payment sends out a Bluetooth Low Energy BLE signal to anyone or any device with mobile application to transfer payment data and get electronic receipt. When a customer checks in their picture and name may pop up on the retailer s point of sale system when a sales associate at the store totals a bill on a cash register or a card reading terminal the beacon mobile payment user gives verbal confirmation to the associate who matches the customer with the picture on the POS screen and concludes the transaction.

The example computer system includes a processor or multiple processors a hard disk drive a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may also include a network interface device . The hard disk drive may include a computer readable medium which stores one or more sets of instructions embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions can also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processors during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory and the processors also constitute machine readable media.

While the computer readable medium is shown in an exemplary embodiment to be a single medium the term computer readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that causes the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present application or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such a set of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical and magnetic media. Such media can also include without limitation hard disks floppy disks NAND or NOR flash memory digital video disks RAM ROM and the like.

The exemplary embodiments described herein can be implemented in an operating environment comprising computer executable instructions e.g. software installed on a computer in hardware or in a combination of software and hardware. The computer executable instructions can be written in a computer programming language or can be embodied in firmware logic. If written in a programming language conforming to a recognized standard such instructions can be executed on a variety of hardware platforms and for interfaces to a variety of operating systems. Although not limited thereto computer software programs for implementing the present method can be written in any number of suitable programming languages such as for example C C C or other compilers assemblers interpreters or other computer languages or platforms.

Thus various systems and methods for providing compensation for using a mobile payment service have been described. Although embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the system and method described herein. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

