---

title: System and methods for enhanced multimedia in VoIP networks
abstract: Calls placed to a call recipient bypass the terminating messaging system, creating an enhanced message in the call originator's messaging system and delivering the enhanced message using alternate routing information. A caller creates enhanced messages for a call recipient even when the call recipient's messaging system does not support such functionality. The caller also embeds stored content and/or use links in the enhanced messages to allow the message to be modified and/or deleted before it is accessed by the call recipient.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09509849&OS=09509849&RS=09509849
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 09509849
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160226
---
This application is a Continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 548 806 filed Jul. 13 2012 which is a Continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 489 567 filed Jun. 23 2009. The contents of each of the foregoing is are hereby incorporated by reference into this application as if set forth herein in full.

The present invention relates generally to message handling and more particularly to message handling in a unified messaging platform environment.

Traditional messaging systems that rely on call forwarding e.g. voicemail etc. must create messages at the terminating e.g. destination message system. It is not possible for the originating caller to influence message handling at the terminating message system. For example it is not possible for a caller to request that a call should not be forwarded to a voicemail system. Thus the originating caller is at the mercy of the functionality provided by the terminating message system.

Accordingly improved systems and methods for message handling in a unified messaging platform environment are required.

The present invention relates generally to message handling and more particularly to message handling in a unified messaging platform environment.

These and other advantages of the invention will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art by reference to the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings.

In at least one embodiment of the present invention calls placed to a call recipient bypass the terminating messaging system creating an enhanced message in the call originator s messaging system and delivering the enhanced message using alternate routing information. This allows a caller to create enhanced messages for a call recipient even when the call recipient s messaging system does not support such functionality. The caller may also embed stored content and or use links in the enhanced messages to allow the message to be modified and or deleted before it is accessed by the call recipient.

As described herein in communication with describes connection between components e.g. calling parties N caller application server routing database UM platform called parties N messaging server etc. that can transmit signals and or information to each other using any appropriate protocol and combination of wired and or wireless communication techniques e.g. VOIP wired IP etc. .

Calling parties N are users of call origination equipment such as wired telephones wireless telephones and the like. Similarly called parties N are users of call reception equipment such as wired telephones wireless telephones and the like. Herein the terms calling parties N and called parties N are used to describe both the human users of the call origination reception equipment and the physical equipment that is enabled to perform the functions described below. Though described separately as call originators and call receptors or terminators it is understood that calling parties N could be receivers of calls and called parties N could be originators of calls as in a conventional telephony network.

Application server is any appropriate server or combination of servers particularly configured to host an application programming interface API that performs the functions described below.

Networks and are any appropriate calling network such as a circuit switched network e.g. PSTN or packet switched network e.g. Internet . Network is associated at least with calling parties N which originate calls and may thus be referred to as an origination network. Similarly network is associated with called parties N and may thus be referred to as a terminating network.

For diagrammatical simplicity networks and have been shown as separate entities. It is understood that networks and may in some embodiments be the same network. Similarly network and or network may include one or more of calling parties N caller application server routing database UM platform called parties N and or messaging server . Thus the various components of messaging system may in some embodiments be used interchangeably and or substitutionally to perform the method steps described below with respect to .

Routing database may be any appropriate database storing routing information. Routing information includes telephone number mapping ENUM routing information domain name system DNS routing information name authority pointer NAPTR records uniform resource identifiers URIs and the like.

UM platform is any appropriate unified messaging system that integrates different streams of communications e.g. email SMS facsimile voice video etc. into a single interface accessible from a variety of different devices. UM platform receives stores and or forwards such streams to calling parties N and or called parties N regardless of network.

Messaging server is a server or similar platform capable of receiving storing and or forwarding messages. In at least one embodiment messaging server is a UM platform. In the same or alternative embodiments messaging server is associated with network and is a message recipient server for called parties N. That is messaging server is a voicemail server for called parties on a particular network or service provider.

Controller contains devices that form a controller including a processor that controls the overall operation of the controller by executing computer program instructions which define such operation. The computer program instructions may be stored in a storage device e.g. magnetic disk database etc. and loaded into memory when execution of the computer program instructions is desired. Thus applications for performing the herein described method steps such as those described below with respect to method are defined by the computer program instructions stored in the memory and or storage and controlled by the processor executing the computer program instructions. The controller may also include one or more network interfaces for communicating with other devices via a network e.g. messaging system The controller also includes input output devices that enable operator interaction with the controller . Controller and or processor may include one or more central processing units read only memory ROM devices and or random access memory RAM devices. One skilled in the art will recognize that an implementation of an actual computer for use in a portable communication device could contain other components as well and that the controller of is a high level representation of some of the components of such a portable communication device for illustrative purposes.

According to some embodiments of the present invention instructions of a program e.g. controller software may be read into memory such as from a ROM device to a RAM device or from a LAN adapter to a RAM device Execution of sequences of the instructions in the program may cause the controller to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry or integrated circuits may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation of the processes of the present invention. Thus embodiments of the present invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware firmware and or software. The memory may store the software for the controller which may be adapted to execute the software program and thereby operate in accordance with the present invention and particular y in accordance with the methods described in detail below. However it would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the invention as described herein could be implemented in many different ways using a wide range of programming techniques as well as general purpose hardware sub systems or dedicated controllers.

Such programs may be stored in a compressed uncompiled and or encrypted format. The programs furthermore may include program elements that may be generally useful such as an operating system a database management system and device drivers for allowing the portable communication device to interface with peripheral devices and other equipment components. Appropriate general purpose program elements are known to those skilled in the art and need not be described in detail herein.

In step a caller e.g. calling party places a call to a called party e.g. called party . Such a call may be placed over one or more networks and or .

In step a determination is made as to whether the caller has enabled an enhanced messaging feature. If the enhanced messaging feature is enabled e.g. at the application server the method proceeds to step . If not the method ends at step . The enhanced messaging feature is enabled for the subscriber via a separate provisioning mechanism. For example the provisioning mechanism may take the form of a web portal that allows the subscriber to control their settings.

In step application server performs a routing query. In at least one embodiment application server performs an ENUM query e.g. via routing database to determine one or more alternate contacts e.g. email address etc. That is application server leverages the original routing information e.g. a telephone number about the called party to determine if additional routing information is stored at routing database and or another location. In at least one embodiment the application server performs the query to locate an acceptable URI for the called party

In step a determination is made as with whether viable alternate routing information has been found. If acceptable alternate routing information is found the method passes control to step . If no acceptable alternate routing information is found the method ends at step .

If acceptable alternate routing information is found the call is forwarded to called party via network and is tagged with an indication that the call should not be forwarded to the voicemail application and server of called party should the call not be answered. In at least one embodiment the call is tagged in the session initiation protocol SIP . The msg taker service is indicated as an unacceptable contact with Internet Engineering Task Force IETF request for comments RFC 3841 Caller Preferences for SIP for example. Generally the indication that the call should not be forwarded may be specified by indicating that the call must not fork e.g. by utilizing the no fork directive of IETF RFD 3841 .

In step a determination is made as to whether the call has been answered by the called party . If the call has been answered the method ends at step . Otherwise the method proceeds to step and the application server transfers the call to a local messaging platform. In at least one embodiment the call is transferred to a unified messaging platform that is associated with network . In an alternative embodiment the call is transferred to another local messaging server such as messaging server . As the call is transferred to the messaging platform an indication is provided that the enhanced messaging feature has been enabled as in step along with an indication of the originally dialed telephone number e.g. the telephone number of called party . In at least one embodiment the indication is provided via a custom header or header parameter in a session initiation protocol SIP . The call may be moved to the local messaging system via Call Forwarding on the Application Server Feature Server. In at least one embodiment this may occur for several reasons including ring no answer busy etc.

In the local messaging platform e.g. UM platform etc. the call is connected from the calling party to the called party and a new message is created in step . That is calling party creates a message with content that has been previously stored or may provide links to such content. The calling party creates the content by recording a message e.g. at messaging server etc. and optionally associating additional stored information with the message. The calling party may also interact with the messaging platform via dual tone multi frequency DTMF or via voice commands.

In step the local messaging platform determines alternate contact information for the called party . In at least one embodiment UM platform performs an ENUM query e.g. at routing database to determine any existing contact preference e.g. email MMS etc established by the calling party and or the called party . In some embodiments the calling party is prompted for contact handling preference. Contact handling preferences allow the calling party to indicate what content is forwarded to the called party and whether links to such content is forwarded to the called party . This content may be stored at any appropriate location in messaging system until retrieved by the called party and or altered by the calling party

In step the local messaging platform delivers the enhanced message to the called party using the preferred contact information determined in step The method ends at step .

Such an enhanced messaging system may augment an existing messaging system such as a unified messaging system. It may be integrated with VoIP networks allowing a caller to create advanced multimedia messages. The caller may then incorporate their own stored content into such messages. Callers can add links to messages. This allows a caller to update and or delete the stored content prior to access by the call recipient. The embodiments described above are incorporated seamlessly into existing networks because the terminating network need only understand the do not forward call directive and the ENUM functionality in IMS architecture can be leveraged to provide the enhanced messaging.

The foregoing Detailed Description is to be understood as being in every respect illustrative and exemplary but not restrictive and the scope of the invention disclosed herein is not to be determined from the Detailed Description but rather from the claims as interpreted according to the full breadth permitted by the patent laws. It is to be understood that the embodiments shown and described herein are only illustrative of the principles of the present invention and that various modifications may be implemented by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Those skilled in the art could implement various other feature combinations without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention.

