---

title: Haptic notifications
abstract: Embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to a haptic actuator or a device having a haptic actuator that is capable of producing short, sharp and crisp pulses in a short amount of time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09564029&OS=09564029&RS=09564029
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 09564029
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160217
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 841 582 filed Aug. 31 2015 and titled Haptic Notifications which is a nonprovisional patent application of and claims the benefit to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 044 964 filed Sep. 2 2014 and titled Haptic Notifications and to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 129 693 filed Mar. 6 2015 and titled Haptic Notifications all of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety as if fully disclosed herein.

The present disclosure is directed to alert output. Further the embodiments disclosed herein are directed to haptic actuators as well as input to the haptic actuators and output characteristics that are used to generate or provide various types of haptic alerts and other alert output for electronic devices.

Electronic devices are commonplace in today s society. These electronic devices include cell phones tablet computers personal digital assistants and the like. Some of these electronic devices include an ability to notify a user of a particular item of interest such as for example an incoming phone call or may otherwise attempt to gain the user s attention through the use of various alerts. These alerts may include vibrating motors noise from speakers in the form of ringtones visual graphics and the like. In some instances the alerts may include an alert component or simply a user interface component such as for example in the form of a visual notification.

Most electronic devices use the same haptic alert to notify users about multiple items of interest. As a result it may be difficult to immediately distinguish between a telephone call a text message or other such notification. This is often caused because the haptic actuator in these electronic devices is limited in its output or operation. Furthermore conventional rotary eccentric mass motors generally produce a very buzzy output caused by the spinning and or oscillation of an eccentric weight about a shaft.

It is with respect to these and other general considerations that embodiments of the present disclosure have been made. Although relatively specific problems have been discussed it should be understood that the embodiments described herein should not be limited to solving the specific problems identified in this background.

Generally embodiments described herein may take the form of or include an actuator operative to output haptic or tactile language expressed as a series of haptic or tactile outputs. The individual haptic input or output waveforms known herein as atoms may be combined with one another to convey increasingly complex information. Thus the atoms may be combined in a variety of fashions to provide specialized outputs with particular meanings or otherwise correspond to particular operations alerts states statuses receipt and or transmission of data by an electronic device. The actuator may be part of or otherwise incorporated into the electronic device or may be separate from but associated with the electronic device.

The haptic input and or outputs may be used to provide discrete and discreet alerts or notifications of information associated with the electronic device. Such information may include data received by the electronic device displayed by the electronic device operating parameters of the electronic device and so on. In certain embodiments the haptic outputs although generated by the electronic device may be in response to events occurring on a separate device. For example a wearable electronic device may generate haptic output s based on information associated with received by or sent from a mobile phone or tablet computer.

Reference will now be made in detail to representative embodiments illustrated in the accompanying drawings. It should be understood that the following descriptions are not intended to limit the embodiments to one preferred embodiment. To the contrary it is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as can be included within the spirit and scope of the described embodiments as defined by the appended claims.

Generally haptic outputs may be used to notify alert or otherwise gain the attention of a person or a user. For example a wearable device may include an actuator that moves or shakes the wearable device such that the person wearing the wearable device has his or her attention drawn to it. In many cases described herein a haptic or tactile output may provide alert functionality that is relatively imperceptible beyond the person interacting with the device producing the haptic output.

Example electronic devices such as those shown in may be physically coupled to an actuator such as shown in that is operative to produce a haptic tactile output. Generally a haptic actuator produces relative motion between two parts of the electronic device. More specifically and in one embodiment the haptic actuator includes an internal mass that moves with respect to a mass of the electronic device. For example the haptic actuator reacts to an actuator input waveform to create forces that move the internal mass relative to the electronic device. These forces impart kinetic energy to the electronic device thereby inducing motion in the device. This device motion may be represented by a device output waveform. This device motion may be felt by a person wearing holding or interacting with the device. Specifics of the sample electronic device and sample actuator are provided later herein.

The terms haptic and tactile are used herein. It should be understood that although haptic may sometimes refer to a sense or perception of force and tactile may sometimes refer to a sense or perception of touch the two terms may be used herein in a substantially interchangeable manner and each term is intended to encompass the other. Thus a haptic output may encompass a tactile output and a tactile output may encompass a haptic output.

Certain embodiments may employ unique and distinct haptic waveforms atoms to provide haptic alerts to a user. More specifically an atom may correspond to a drive signal that includes a voltage a voltage value a current or other electrical input that is configured to control an actuator. In some embodiments once the atom has been played by the actuator the actuator may return to its nominal position.

These atoms may be combined in a variety of forms and ways to create different haptic patterns. The atoms may be thought of as letters of a haptic language. Each atom may represent a base building block or a base haptic pattern or waveform of the haptic language. Accordingly the combination of different atoms results in different words and or phrases in the haptic language. As the various atoms are combined in different patterns the alerts of the haptic language may become more advanced. As a result different words or phrases of the haptic language may be associated with for example various alert events or notifications. The various atoms may be chosen from a predefined or prearranged library of atoms. The atoms in the library may also be freely combined with one another. In some implementations different combinations of atoms may be cycled or otherwise repeated at a given frequency or over a certain duration of time. For example a first atom or combination of atoms may be played 10 times at certain intervals. This cycle may then be repeated for a specified number of times and or for specified duration.

As a user of the electronic device becomes familiar with the haptic language the user may be able to understand what event notifications or alerts are being received based for example solely or in part on the haptic output provided by the haptic language. Further a user or developer may be able to program or create a customized haptic language specific or otherwise tailored to the needs of the user a program an application and the like. Audio and or acoustic output may also be provided as part of or in addition to a haptic waveform of an alert. Addition of the audio output may further enhance the haptic language and or enable further customization of alerts.

Accordingly alerts may be generated upon receipt of data by the electronic device from an external source text messages emails phone calls warning systems and the like by an application for example to indicate that a user input is requested upon reaching a certain time for example a time at which a calendar entry occurs by an operational state of the electronic device for example a low battery charge an upgrade to the operating system of the electronic device the temperature of the electronic device reaching a certain point and so on through a user initiated setting an alarm set to occur at a certain time due to geographic factors entering or exiting a certain area proximity to another person and or another electronic device and on on. These and other alert conditions will be appreciated upon reading this document in its entirety.

Basic atoms may correspond to simple alerts while more complex combinations of atoms may correspond to more intricate alerts. Various alerts may be provided for a variety of operations of an electronic device information received by an electronic device information displayed by an electronic device interactions with a graphical user interface of an electronic device acknowledgement of user inputs and so on collectively referred to as alert events or alert conditions. Additional examples of alert events may include 1 incoming and or outgoing text based communications such as for example an email a text message and so on 2 incoming and or outgoing voice image and or video communications 3 calendaring and or appointment notifications 4 electronic device alert notifications such as for example a low battery notification electronic device or application update notifications electronic device pairing notifications and so on 5 location and or directional based notifications 6 application based notifications such as for example push notifications alerts and so on from various applications that are executing on the electronic device or on a companion device 7 time based notifications such as alarms time notifications and so on and 8 health related or physiological conditions or notifications. In some embodiments the alert notification may be played by multiple devices concurrently or substantially concurrently.

In other implementation a first device may begin to play an alert notification and an associated electronic device or a companion device may assume the output or playback of the alert notification. In still yet other implementations various alert conditions may correspond to different electronic devices. In such cases the alert notifications may be played on a single electronic device or multiple electronic devices. Although specific alert events are stated above these are examples and not to be taken in a limiting sense.

In certain embodiments a unique haptic output may be associated with any or all of the example alert events listed above and more . Thus when one alert event occurs or is about to occur a haptic output associated with that particular alert event is provided by the electronic device. A user or wearer of the electronic device will feel the haptic alert when he or she is wearing the electronic device or interacting with the electronic device. Thus the user or wearer of the electronic device may be able to distinguish one alert event from other alert events.

More specifically each type of haptic output that is associated with a particular alert event may be made up of different patterns or combinations of haptic atoms. For example when an email notification event is received a first haptic output pattern may be provided by the electronic device. In this example the first haptic output pattern may consist of a first type of haptic atom provided at a first time followed by a second type of haptic atom provided at a second time followed by a third type of haptic atom provided at a third time. In such embodiments the combination of the first type of haptic atom the second type of haptic atom and the third type of haptic atom is a unique pattern of haptic output that is associated with an email message. In another example if a telephone communication is received the electronic device may provide a second haptic output pattern consisting of a first type of haptic atom followed by three iterations of a second type of haptic atom.

In addition to the patterns or combinations of haptic atoms the haptic output for an alert event may also include various types of audio output. The audio output may be provided with before or after each haptic atom.

For example as shown in an alert event may include a first haptic atom followed by a second haptic atom which is followed by a third haptic atom . As also shown in each atom may be followed by an audio output. For example audio output may be output such that it overlaps the end of the first haptic atom audio output may be output slightly after the second haptic atom and audio output may be provided slightly after the third haptic atom . Further the intensity and or frequency of each audio output may increase decrease over a given time period. Although audio output is shown and described as being output slightly after each atom in some embodiments the audio output may be output before during or after each atom.

The combination of each of the haptic atoms and constitute a haptic pattern . For example and as discussed above each haptic atom and represents a base building block of the haptic language. Thus when combined each haptic atom and make up a particular phrase in the haptic language. Addition of various types of audio output such as audio output and may also be used as part of the haptic language.

As yet another example and returning to the concept of a haptic language a notification or an alert of an incoming video call may be formed from two atoms or two haptic patterns. For example one atom or pattern may correspond to video image or the like and another atom or pattern may correspond to telephone call message and so on. This may permit a user to perceive the nature of the alert and or the underlying event once the user appreciates and comprehends the meaning of the individual haptic atoms or patterns. It should be appreciated that sample words or phrases created from atoms need not bear any relationship to the individual atoms used to create the particular term word or phrase. For example although various types of atoms may be combined to form a notification of an incoming telephone call each individual atom in the combination need not be specifically directed to a notification of an incoming message telephone call etc.

In each of the examples above a time delay either constant and or variable may be interspersed between each type of haptic atom that makes up each haptic output pattern. Continuing with the example of described above a first time delay may be provided between the first haptic atom and the second haptic atom . However a different time delay e.g. a time delay that is either longer or shorter than the first time delay may be provided between the second haptic atom and the third haptic atom .

In some instances the time delay between each atom may be associated with a particular atom being played. For example a first type of atom may require a set time delay before a second atom is played in order to ensure that an actuator mass of the haptic actuator has stopped moving or has returned to its nominal position a predetermined position or a particular condition. A variable delay may also be placed between sequences of atoms to increase or decrease the time delay between each of the atoms. Although specific examples have been given embodiments described herein are not so limited and various types of haptic output patterns may be created and used for a variety of alert events conditions or notifications.

Generally three different waveforms may be involved in or associated with any given atom. First an input waveform may be provided to the haptic actuator. Next the actuator may move in response to the input waveform thereby generating an actuator waveform. Third the motion of the haptic actuator or a mass of the haptic actuator may produce a motion of the electronic device which is expressed as a device waveform. It should be appreciated that the device waveform may have an amplitude or an intensity that is different from the amplitude or the intensity of the actuator waveform due to the mass of the device when compared to the mass of the actuator. Further the device waveform may be have a displacement direction that is opposite from the displacement direction of the actuator waveform since the motion of the actuator mass causes an opposing motion of the device.

This concept is further illustrated in . For example and as shown an input waveform such as a current a voltage a voltage value or other electrical input may be provided to a haptic actuator of the electronic device. In response to the input waveform the movement or displacement of the actuator or the actuator mass may be expressed as an output waveform . Movement or displacement of the actuator as represented by the output waveform causes the electronic device to move. Like the movement of the actuator the movement of displacement of the electronic device may be represented as a device waveform .

Further the term output waveform or output atom as used herein may encompass both actuator waveforms and device waveforms. In some embodiments a device waveform may be substantially identical to an actuator waveform except that its amplitude or intensity may be a percentage of the amplitude or intensity of the actuator waveform insofar as the device has greater mass than the actuator or a moving part of the actuator .

As will be explained below each atom sequence of atoms and or combination of atoms may be described or defined with respect to various parameters and or waveforms. Likewise the various input waveforms may be described using similar parameters.

Generally parameters of a waveform are those characteristics of a waveform that are measurable and variable. Thought of another way varying a parameter of a waveform may vary a haptic output of an electronic device. Typically although not necessarily a waveform be it input actuator or device may be described and shown on a graph of any two parameters where each parameter corresponds to an axis of the graph. Certain parameters may be more useful than others in describing certain waveforms.

In some embodiments these parameters may include 1 displacement 2 frequency 3 shape of the waveform 4 an envelope associated with the waveform 5 velocity 6 intensity or amplitude 7 zero crossings 8 force 9 time 10 mass of the actuator 11 mass of an electronic device and or a housing of the electronic device 12 number of cycles and 13 momentum of the actuator or the electronic device. Each of these parameters may be viewed with respect to other parameters set forth above and various other parameters. In some embodiments an intensity of a waveform may include or be associated with an amplitude of a waveform. Thus the higher the intensity of a particular haptic output or output waveform the higher the amplitude of the waveform.

For example and as will be shown below displacement and velocity may be described with respect to time. Further insofar as momentum is equal to mass times velocity the waveform of any graph showing velocity vs. time also illustrates a scaled version of momentum vs. time insofar as the masses of the moving parts of the actuator or housing are time invariant. Likewise force may be described with respect to mass. In yet other examples the shape of the atom may include characteristics of a waveform such as for example whether the waveform is a square wave a sinusoidal wave and so on.

A zero crossing is a crossing of a graph axis by the waveform including crossing at a threshold percentage of a peak value or at a DC offset. Thus for a waveform expressed as a plot of displacement with respect to time each intersection of the waveform with the time axis is a zero crossing. In some embodiments a zero crossing occurs when a given parameter exceeds a minimum threshold of a maximum or peak value of that parameter or a predetermined minimum threshold value. For example if displacement was the given parameter and a peak or maximum displacement value of an actuator mass of the haptic actuator was ten a zero crossing would occur when the displacement of the actuator mass crosses a threshold percentage e.g. 10 or some other threshold value of the peak displacement e.g. a ringdown threshold . Although crossing of graph axis is specifically mentioned certain embodiments may account for any DC offset that may be present in the system. For example if DC offset was present in the system such that crossing of an axis did not occur or did not occur in the specified amount of times as set forth herein the waveform may still have the specified number of zero crossings if such an offset were removed from the system.

Further each atom may be expressed in terms of an envelope. An envelope may bind a varying signal with one or more smooth curves that outline the amplitude extremes of the signal. These bounded regions may indicate for example an area in which the waveform may vary slightly significantly or not at all while still providing a desired result. An envelope can also be applied to a waveform to conform the amplitude extremes of the waveform to a desired behavior.

As discussed above haptic outputs may be formed from one or more haptic atoms. For example certain output waveforms may be associated with a haptic output having a particular or desired haptic profile within a target number of zero crossings. For example one sample haptic output from the actuator may be described or illustrated as an output waveform that has four or fewer zero crossings. As described above additional output waveform parameters may include the amplitude of the displacement and or the time in which the zero crossings occur. In certain embodiments reducing the number of zero crossings and or bounding such zero crossings within a time envelope while maintaining a relatively large displacement of a moving mass of the haptic actuator may provide a noticeable haptic output in a relatively short amount of time.

In addition to the parameters described above each atom may be described in terms of the feel of the haptic output and or the waveform associated with the atom. For example each waveform whether an input waveform or an output waveform may have a shape that is tailored to provide a specific result. In the case of an input waveform that shape may be designed to generate a particular output waveform having desired useful or predetermined haptic properties or in some cases auditory properties or combinations of haptic and auditory properties . For example the input waveform may have a sinusoidal shape. In other implementations the input waveform may be a square waveform or a substantially square waveform.

In one embodiment one of the atoms described herein may be referred to as a tap. In certain embodiments the tap may be perceived as a crisp single haptic tap much like a tap for gaining someone s attention. In addition one atom may be called a mini tap. The mini tap creates a weaker hut sharper tap sensation than the tap described above. Another type of atom is described herein as a micro tap. The micro tap may be described as creating a weaker but sharper sensation than the mini tap just described. Each of these atoms along with their resulting output waveforms will be discussed in greater detail below.

In addition to the tap mini tap and micro tap atoms described above additional atoms may be referred to herein as a sine sine with a boost sine with a brake and sine with a boost and a brake. Further each of these atoms may have an associated haptic feel. For example the sine atom may be a pure sine wave that takes a few cycles to achieve a steady state amplitude. As a result the beginning and end of the haptic output may not be as crisp and or sharp as the tap atom described above. As will be described below the sine with a boost may have a crisp and or sharp start while the sine with a brake may have a sharp and or crisp stop. Further the sine with a boost and a brake may have both a sharp and or crisp start and a sharp and or crisp stop.

In addition to the above atoms an electronic device or system can also be configured to permit a user or designer developer to create and or generate various types of custom atoms each of which provide haptic output. In such embodiments each custom atom may have an associated input waveform output waveform and tactile feel. These custom atoms may be bound by certain maximum parametric values in order to maintain system operation. As one non limiting example a maximum displacement of the actuator mass may be defined by the system to prevent the mass from impacting the actuator enclosure. As another non limiting example a minimum time between atoms may be system specified to permit the actuator to attain a particular operating state after completion of one atom and before beginning another atom. The electronic device or system can bound by any of the above identified parameters.

As discussed above these parameters may include but are not limited to 1 displacement 2 frequency 3 shape of the waveform 4 an envelope associated with the waveform 5 velocity 6 intensity or amplitude 7 zero crossings 8 force 9 time 10 mass of the actuator 11 mass of an electronic device 12 number of cycles 13 momentum and so on. In some embodiments some of these parameters may be constrained by various envelopes. In other embodiments these parameters may be viewed with respect to additional parameters. Although specific examples using the above parameters are illustrated in the accompanying figures these figures and their associated parameters are for illustrative purposes only.

In certain embodiments the atom known as the tap as well as the other types of haptic output described herein may be quieter than a typical haptic output produced by conventional haptic actuators. In some embodiments the haptic output provided by each of the atoms described herein is up to ten times quieter than a conventional vibration provided by other haptic actuators. As a result the haptic notifications may be more private. That is the haptic output provided by the haptic actuator may be perceived by a user wearing or interacting with the wearable electronic device with little to no perception by others.

As shown in the input waveform associated with the tap atom may be represented as a substantially square waveform having a drive period a brake period and a delay period . As shown each of the drive period the brake period and the delay period may be applied at different times along a time period . In certain embodiments the drive period and the brake period collectively make up an active period. The active period may be described as a section of an atom such as input waveform where the waveform is carefully crafted and tuned to achieve a desired actuation and haptic output. In some embodiments the time duration of the active period may be between six and forty milliseconds. In some examples the time duration of the active period is approximately thirty five milliseconds. The drive period and the brake period may each be between approximately three milliseconds and twenty milliseconds. In some instances the drive period may be approximately seventeen and a half milliseconds and the brake period may be approximately seventeen and a half milliseconds. Further the drive period may be described as part of the waveform where controlled excitation is applied to the haptic actuator. For example the drive period cause an electromotive force to push and or pull on the actuator mass of the haptic actuator to excite movement. Put another way the electromotive force may push the actuator mass in a first direction and pull the actuator mass in a second direction once movement of the actuator mass in the first direction has stopped. The push followed by the pull may act to increase displacement velocity and or momentum such as described below.

The brake period may be described as a period in which a brake or a drive in reverse is applied to the actuator and in which excitation of the haptic actuator is stopped also known as open loop braking . Likewise the brake period may cause an electromotive force to push and or pull on the actuator mass in order to slow and eventually stop movement of the actuator mass. For example as the actuator mass is traveling in a first direction the electromotive force may push against the actuator mass in order to slow or otherwise reduce movement displacement velocity and or momentum of the actuator mass. When the actuator mass moves in a second direction the electro motive force may pull against the actuator mass to further slow the actuator mass.

As also shown in the input waveform may include a delay period . In certain embodiments the delay period is configured to provide a safety margin between atoms when atoms are stitched together e.g. combined placed in sequence etc. . In certain embodiments the delay period helps prevent residual motion from cascading to a following atom which could result in excessive actuator excitation and impact. In some embodiments each input waveform described herein may have a set delay period associated with it. Thus a first atom may have a first delay period while a second atom has a second different delay period.

As also shown in the input waveform may have various other time parameters that are used to determine a desired actuation time of the haptic actuator the actual actuation time of the haptic actuator and a delay time that represents a time period that may be required between when a first atom is provided by a synthesizer engine and a second atom is provided by a synthesizer engine. These time periods are referred to herein as Tspecified Tactive and Tdelay . Although these time parameters are shown and described with respect to these time parameters may be used with any and all of the input waveforms described herein including various waveform sequences.

As used herein Tspecified corresponds to a desired actuation time of the haptic actuator. Further a synthesizer engine may be configured to fit as many cycles as possible into the time period specified by Tspecified. In some embodiments the time period associated with Tspecified may be a variable amount of time. Tactive is defined as the resulting active period of Tspecified. More specifically Tactive consists of N number of complete cycles that an actuator may play based on for example how the actuator is tuned. In some embodiments Tactive may be shorter in time or be equivalent or substantially equivalent in time to Tspecified. For example as discussed above a synthesizer engine may be configured to play complete cycles. Thus if a designer or computing instructions specifies a first time period for Tspecified but only N complete cycles can fit within the time period of Tspecified Tactive is the resulting time period for the haptic output. In some implementations the time difference between Tactive and Tspecified is less than one period of a cycle. Tdelay is a time period that represents a delay that may be required between atoms to ensure most if not all residual motion of the actuator mass has ceased. Tdelay may be equivalent to the delay period associated with each atom.

In certain embodiments of the tap atom each of the drive period and the brake period may include at least one positive voltage and at least one negative voltage . Further each pulse of the positive voltage and the negative voltage may be applied at various times along the time period . For example a first voltage may be applied at a first time a second voltage may be applied at a second time and a third voltage may be applied at a third time. Further each of the applied voltages may cause a momentum and or a velocity of the actuator mass of the haptic actuator to increase or decrease and or may cause a displacement of the actuator mass to increase or decrease.

For example a first voltage or a first voltage value may be applied to the haptic actuator at a first time. In certain embodiments the first voltage is applied at a time when the displacement or movement of the actuator mass is zero substantially zero or below a threshold displacement distance e.g. the mass of the haptic actuator may have residual movement hut that residual movement is below a threshold .

The first voltage or a voltage having a first value may provide a first electromotive force which moves the actuator mass of the haptic actuator from a starting point to a first point in a first direction. At a second time the second voltage or a voltage having a second value provides a second electromotive force which moves the actuator mass of the haptic actuator from the first point to a second point in a second direction. The second electromotive force may have a polarity that is opposite from the first electromotive force and the second direction is opposite from the first direction.

At a third time a third voltage or a voltage having a third value is applied to the haptic actuator which provides a third electromotive force. The third electromotive force causes the actuator mass of the haptic actuator to move from the second point to a third point in the first direction. In certain embodiments the third voltage may be substantially equivalent to the first voltage.

As a result of each of the various electromotive forces described above an output waveform such as for example output waveform is shaped and the desired haptic output or the tap may be provided. In certain embodiments the difference between the first time and the third time or more specifically the drive period may be between three milliseconds and twenty milliseconds. In some cases the drive period may be approximately seventeen and a half milliseconds. Once the drive period has completed the brake period may begin. In some embodiments the brake period like the drive period consists of a series of voltages having different peak amplitudes or values that are applied at other discrete time periods in order to slow movement of the actuator mass. For example fourth fifth and sixth voltages having various peak amplitudes may be applied at a fourth time fifth time and sixth time respectively to cause various electromotive forces to be applied to the haptic actuator. In some embodiments each of these electromotive forces may have a polarity that is opposite from the current direction of travel of the actuator mass when the electromotive force is applied. As a result each of these forces cause the actuator mass to slow and eventually stop movement. When the movement of the actuator has stopped the actuator may be in its nominal position.

In certain embodiments the tap haptic output uses substantially the full excursion limits of the haptic actuator mass and as a result the actuator mass is at a high risk for crashing or impacting into the sidewall of the haptic actuator which may cause damage to the haptic actuator and or the actuator mass. As a result residual motion of the actuator mass may need to be reduced to zero or substantially zero prior to initiating another tap or other atom to be output. Accordingly once the brake period has completed a delay period is provided.

In some cases the delay period is a time period in which additional atoms may not be played by the haptic actuator. This helps ensure that movement of the actuator mass has stopped or slowed so that any residual motion of the actuator will not cascade with another atom thereby causing excessive movement of the actuator mass. In some embodiments the delay period after the tap atom is played or the recommended or required delay before the tap atom is played is approximately fifteen milliseconds or higher although other values including lower values may be used. In some implementations the total time footprint for the tap atom may be approximately seventy milliseconds. Thus the time between when the synthesizer engine begins playing the tap atom and the time when a subsequent atom may be played is approximately seventy milliseconds. As with other times discussed herein with respect to atoms the time may be greater or less than seventy milliseconds. In addition to a delay period a silence atom may be played by the haptic actuator in order to increase a delay between sequences of atoms. During the silence atom no haptic voltage is applied to the actuator and the actuator mass returns to its nominal state and or remains substantially stationary.

In certain embodiments input waveform may have a frequency of between 50 Hz and 150 Hz although other frequencies may be used. For example the input waveform may have a frequency of approximately 80 Hz. In other embodiments the frequency may be 200 Hz or higher or 300 Hz or higher. In some embodiments the frequency of the input waveform is configured to achieve salience without a leading buzz or a trailing buzz that is typically present in conventional haptic actuators.

For example the input waveform along with those of other atoms described herein is designed to maximally excite the haptic actuator and then provide a braking function to cancel the oscillations as quickly as possible. The input waveform along with those of the other atoms described herein may be defined as a function of a resonance frequency and or a quality factor associated with the haptic actuator or the electronic device.

The tap atom may have two full periods of motion generated by a 2.5 period waveform. For example the combination of the drive period and the brake period may be equivalent to an input waveform having an active period of approximately 2.5 periods. More specifically the input waveform for the tap atom includes a drive period of approximately 1.25 periods which is used to accelerate the actuator mass of the haptic actuator. Likewise the input waveform for the tap includes a brake period of approximately 1.25 periods that is used to brake or otherwise slow the actuator mass of the haptic actuator. In some embodiments the 1.25 cycles may be at 200 Hz or higher or 300 Hz or higher. Although periods of the drive and the brake are specifically mentioned the specifics of each of the periods may be altered or changed based on various factors that are associated with the haptic actuator or on forces that are being applied on the actuator mass of the haptic actuator.

In certain embodiments the haptic actuators disclosed herein may be tuned or calibrated to provide a consistent feel between various devices. More specifically the electronic device and or the haptic actuator of the electronic device may be calibrated based on values of parameters that are specific to the electronic device. This may include size of the device the material of the housing of the device differences in tolerances of the various components of the electronic device and so on.

For example a housing of the electronic device may be available in different sizes. Accordingly a drive period a brake period and or an audio output may be tuned or calibrated based on the shape and or size of the housing. In other examples duration of a drive period of the input waveform may be tuned based on e.g. approximately to match a resonance frequency of the haptic actuator that is present in the electronic device. In another embodiment the duration of the drive period of the input waveform may be tuned based on e.g. approximately to match the resonance frequency of the actuator. In still yet other embodiments the atoms and or the different periods of the atoms described herein may be tuned to different housings of an electronic device.

In other implementations the audit output and the haptic output may be tuned or otherwise calibrated based on user preferences. For example the intensity of a vibratory and or audio output may be set by a user via an operating system on the device.

The haptic output and the audio output may also be calibrated or tuned based on the material of the housing. For example the audio output and haptic output may be customized or calibrated in a first manner if the housing is made of or plated with a precious metal e.g. gold or silver and customized or calibrated in a second manner if the housing is made of or plated with a second material e.g. stainless steel or aluminum .

Calibration of the haptic actuator may also be based on an operating temperature of the device and or an overall temperature under which the electronic device is operating. Accordingly the atoms and the haptic output caused by the atoms may be adjusted based on the temperature. In certain other embodiments the haptic actuator may be calibrated or tuned based on the wear of the haptic actuator. For example the atom and the haptic output may be adjusted over the life of the electronic device.

In one example of tuning the drive period may be tuned based on ninety five percent of the resonance frequency of the haptic actuator or the electronic device. Tuning the drive period of the input waveform in such a manner may provide a haptic output during use of the electronic device that may be preferential in some way than would otherwise be provided if the haptic actuator was not tuned. Further tuning the drive period such as described may enable the actuator mass to stop movement of the actuator mass more quickly than would otherwise occur if the haptic actuator was not tuned. Although a specific form of tuning is discussed the haptic actuator may be tuned based on other factors such as life of the device material of the device operating temperature and so on.

In certain embodiments an input force on the actuator mass may change sign at a peak displacement of the actuator mass. At that moment the momentum and velocity of the actuator mass is zero. For example if an actuator mass moves from a starting point to a first point in a first direction in response to a first electromotive force the momentum and velocity of the actuator mass will begin to slow and eventually reach zero as it reaches the first point and prior to returning to its starting point . At that time the input force applied on the actuator mass changes sign. Likewise the momentum velocity and the displacement of the actuator mass may also change sign.

However due to various imperfections external forces or differing tolerance and the like an actuator may not deliver equal force at all times when the actuator mass is in each position. Accordingly alternate drive timing may be required. As such drive periods may vary between eighty five and one hundred percent of the natural period of the actuator mass but each segment of the drive waveform may be adjusted or tuned individually.

In certain embodiments the brake period may also be adjusted. The adjustments to the brake period may be based on the haptic actuator the actuator mass the electronic device material of the housing size of the housing forces acting on the actuator mass and so on. For example the brake period may be adjusted such that the amount of power provided to brake the actuator mass is equivalent to a percentage of the maximum power or drive of the input waveform . More specifically the brake period may be tuned to match a dampening of the haptic actuator. For example once the drive is changed from one of acceleration to braking the actuator mass of the haptic actuator will begin to slow naturally which causes the actuator to lose energy. Accordingly if the brake is tuned to the dampening less energy may be required to slow and eventually stop movement of the actuator mass. This is shown in as the amplitudes of the voltage waveform associated with the brake period are less than the amplitude of the voltage waveform associated with the drive period .

In certain embodiments the drive period and or the brake period may be adjusted based on the weight shape or other factors of the haptic actuator or the actuator mass. In some embodiments the amount of power consumed when each haptic atom is played or otherwise provided to the haptic actuator to produce the haptic output may be between approximately 0.5 and 1.0 watt of power.

In the embodiments described herein each of the atoms for the tap mini tap and micro tap may be described and shown as a square waveform or a partial square waveform. However square waveforms may produce a strong acoustic signature when played by the haptic actuator. For example if an input waveform is square the atom may excite higher order modes at a transition edge which causes acoustic emissions. Because the acoustic signature is present the acoustic signature may be output with each actuation of the actuator and produce unwanted sounds.

In order to reduce these acoustic emissions a low pass filter which may be a 500 Hz low pass filter in one sample embodiment may be applied to the input waveforms described herein. The low pass filter may be used to round off the square edges of the input waveform . However because the low pass filter is a casual filter it may leave some sharp transitions when complete. In order to remedy this the low pass filter may be a bi direction low pass filter. As such both the leading edge of each crest and trough of the input waveform and the trailing edge of each crest and trough of the input waveform may be rounded. Applying the filter in this manner reduces the amount of acoustic noise caused by the haptic actuator. As a result the feel of the tactile output may be less buzzy. 

In additional or alternative embodiments one or more notch filters may be applied to the input waveform if particular acoustic resonances caused by the sharp edges of the input waveform are known. In yet another embodiment high frequency acoustic noise may be reduced or eliminated by reducing input energy.

In other embodiments it may be desirable to have the acoustic noise caused by the sharp transitions of the input waveform as such acoustic are capable of producing sound. In such cases the acoustic waveforms associated with the acoustic noise may be superimposed on the input waveform to produce desired sounds.

In certain other embodiments the amplitude of any of the pulses in the input waveform may vary. For example the amplitude of the final braking pulse shown in may be adjusted such that the actuator mass achieves zero momentum and velocity at zero displacement or substantially zero displacement with the final braking pulse. The adjustment to the amplitude of the pulse may be made based on a particular device a haptic actuator or based on a reference waveform.

The final pulse of a brake may also be modified or otherwise adjusted to account for back electromotive force back EMF . Back EMF is a voltage or an electromotive force that pushes against the current which induces it. Thus as voltage is being applied to the haptic actuator and the actuator mass is moving a voltage is generated that opposes the drive voltage being applied to the haptic actuator. Put another way a moving magnet of the haptic actuator may generate aback EMF proportional to the momentum and or velocity of the actuator mass. Thus a drive voltage applied to an actuator will result in less effective input power due to the back EMF is opposing it. As it may be desirable to provide peak power at all times and as the haptic actuator may be working within a fixed power budget e.g. between 0.5 and 1.0 watt of power for a given time period the drive voltage of the input waveform can be increased based on the momentum and or velocity of actuator mass.

Back EMF may also be accounted for when a brake is applied to the actuator mass. For example because the back EMF is opposing the drive the back EMF essentially assists with the braking. As such an amplitude of the voltage in the brake period need not be as high as the voltage in the drive period .

As shown in an actuator mass of a haptic actuator may be displaced a first distance represented by the first peak in the output waveform in response to a first voltage. For example and as discussed above the first voltage may cause a first electromotive force to be applied to the actuator mass. In response the actuator mass moves a first distance. In some embodiments the first electromotive force may be defined as a push. 

The displacement between the starting point of the waveform and point shown in may be equivalent to the time in which an electromotive force provided by the first voltage pushes the actuator mass and as a result causes the actuator mass to be displaced the first distance. The electromotive force that is applied may have a first polarity which causes the actuator mass to be displaced a first distance or otherwise moved from its nominal position or a state of minimal movement to a first position represented by the first peak .

When a second voltage or a voltage having a different amplitude or value is applied at a second time period the second voltage may cause a second electromotive force to be applied to the actuator mass. The second voltage may cause the sign of the displacement or the momentum of the actuator mass such as shown in to change from positive to negative or vice versa.

In the example shown in the second electromotive force has a second polarity that is opposite from the first polarity. The second electromotive force or a pull causes the actuator mass to be displaced a second distance represented by the trough . The pull may be provided between point and point as shown in . As also shown in the second displacement is greater than the first displacement.

As a result of the second displacement the actuator mass crosses its point of origin or its nominal position. In addition the oscillating wave that represents the output waveform crosses a zero displacement axis. Crossing of the axis in this manner is referred to as a zero crossing. Thus haptic output may be provided by the haptic actuator in a given number of e.g. three or fewer zero crossings. In some embodiments the zero crossings may be defined in terms of velocity and or momentum. In such embodiments the haptic output may be provided in four or fewer velocity zero crossings.

At a third time a third voltage or a voltage having a third value or amplitude that is different than the second voltage is applied to the haptic actuator. The third voltage causes a third electromotive force to be applied to the haptic actuator. In the example illustrated by the third electromotive force may have a polarity that is equivalent to the first polarity. The third electromotive force may also be seen as a push. That is between point and point the third electromotive force pushes the actuator mass to further increase the displacement such as shown by the second peak . In addition in some embodiments and with all the atoms described herein a peak velocity or a velocity having a peak amplitude may be reached within two periods of a peak input voltage being applied to the haptic actuator.

The output waveform may be shaped by the various voltages or voltage values that are applied during the drive period and the brake period . As such the shape of the output waveform causes the haptic actuator to provide the tap haptic output. The time between when the voltage is first applied and the second peak is reached truly be between three milliseconds and twenty milliseconds. In a more specific example the time may be approximately seventeen and a half milliseconds and is achieved in approximately 1.25 cycles of drive such as described above with respect to . As also shown in the peak displacement whether represented by a peak or a trough in the output waveform may be achieved in four or fewer zero crossings. In other embodiments the peak displacement may be achieved in three or fewer zero crossings. As discussed above the zero crossings may be defined in terms of velocity and or momentum. In such embodiments the haptic output may be provided in four or fewer velocity or magnitude zero crossings.

Thus unlike conventional haptic actuators that require significantly more zero crossings to achieve peak or maximum displacement which causes a buzzy feel to haptic output driving the actuator such as described above produces a sharp sensation. More specifically by providing the haptic output in four or fewer or three or fewer zero crossings the tap atom is achieved which produces the sharp sensation that has not otherwise been obtainable.

In order to generate a sharp tap such as described the oscillation of the actuator mass must be stopped as quickly as possible after peak displacement or a peak momentum shown in has been achieved. As such another 1.25 cycles of a brake represented as brake period of may be applied to the haptic actuator. In the example output waveform of the various voltage values of the brake period e.g. the peaks and troughs of the brake period are represented by point point and point .

More specifically at a fourth time a fourth voltage or a voltage having a fourth value or an amplitude that is different than the third voltage may be applied to the haptic actuator which causes a fourth electromotive force to be applied to the actuator mass of the haptic actuator. The fourth electromotive force may have a polarity that is opposite from the pull that was previously applied e.g. the third electromotive force represented by point . As such the brake may cause the overall displacement or movement of the actuator mass to decrease.

Continuous application of the brake over a time period at fifth and sixth time periods respectively may cause the peak displacement of the actuator mass to further decrease such as represented by trough until an overall displacement of zero or substantially zero has been reached. As discussed above the value or peaks of the applied voltages may cause various electromotive forces to be applied to the actuator mass that have different polarities e.g. polarities that are the same as or opposite from from the direction of movement of the actuator mass immediately before the force is applied. In certain embodiments the time that elapses between when the actuator begins its movement or displacement and the time at which the actuator mass returns to a state of rest as a result of the brake period or a displacement of substantially zero over a given time period may be anywhere between approximately six milliseconds and approximately forty milliseconds. In some embodiments the time period is approximately thirty five milliseconds.

In addition to the above each peak and trough of the momentum velocity graph may be reached at corresponding zero crossings of the displacement graph . Likewise each peak and trough in the displacement graph may correspond to various zero crossings in the momentum velocity graph . For example peak may be reached at the same time the first zero crossing in the displacement graph occurs. Likewise trough in the momentum velocity graph may be reached at the same time the second zero crossing occurs in the displacement graph and so on.

As shown in an actuator mass of a haptic actuator may have a first momentum represented by the first trough in response to a first voltage being applied to the haptic actuator at a first time. As discussed above the first voltage may cause a first electromotive force to be applied to the actuator mass in the form of a push. The first electromotive force causes the actuator mass to increase its momentum from zero or substantially zero to a first momentum represented by the first trough .

When the second voltage is applied at a second time period the second voltage may cause a second electromotive force to be applied to the actuator mass. In certain embodiments the second voltage is applied when the sign of the momentum of the actuator mass changes from positive to negative or vice versa. The second electromotive force causes the actuator mass to have a second peak momentum represented by the peak . The second momentum is greater than the first momentum such as shown in .

Further as also shown in as the actuator mass crosses its point of origin or its original starting point the oscillating wave that represents the momentum of the actuator mass crosses a zero axis. Crossing of the axis in this manner is referred to as a zero crossing. Thus a peak momentum and peak velocity of the actuator mass may be reached within given number e.g. four or fewer zero crossings or within two periods of receiving peak input voltage.

When a third voltage is applied to the haptic actuator at a third time the third voltage causes a third electromotive force to be applied to the haptic actuator. The third electromotive force increases the momentum of the actuator mass such as shown by the trough .

In certain embodiments the time period between the first applied voltage and the time when the peak momentum and velocity has been reached may be anywhere between approximately three milliseconds and approximately twenty milliseconds. In one example the peak momentum velocity may be reached in approximately seventeen and a half milliseconds or less and be achieved in approximately 1.25 cycles of drive such as described above with respect to . The peak momentum may be between approximately 1500 gram millimeters per second and approximately 2000 gram millimeters per second.

As discussed above in order to generate a sharp tap the momentum of the actuator mass must be stopped as quickly as possible after peak momentum has been achieved. As such 1.25 cycles of a brake may be applied to the haptic actuator. In certain embodiments the brake voltages of the input waveform may cause the momentum of the actuator mass to reduce such as described above with respect to the displacement of the actuator mass.

For example at a fourth time a fourth voltage may be applied to the haptic actuator which causes a fourth electromotive force or a brake to be applied to the actuator mass of the haptic actuator. The fourth electromotive force causes the momentum of the actuator mass to decrease. Likewise application of additional electromotive forces cause the momentum of the actuator mass to further decrease such as represented by peak until a momentum of zero or substantially zero has been reached. In some embodiments the time that elapses between the actuator mass increasing in momentum from zero or substantially zero to the time at which the actuator mass returns to a momentum and velocity of zero or substantially zero may be somewhere between six milliseconds and forty milliseconds. In one implementation the time period may be approximately thirty five milliseconds.

The momentum and or velocity of a device with respect to the tap atom may also be represented as an output waveform. In such embodiments the output waveform that represents the momentum and or velocity of the device may be similar to the momentum velocity graph shown above with respect to . Ideally conservation of momentum would cause the amplitude of the momentum graph of the device to be similar to the amplitude of the momentum of actuator mass shown in hut have an opposing sign. With conservation of momentum the velocity of the device may be smaller when compared to the velocity of the actuator mass because the device has a mass that is greater than the mass of the actuator. However as momentum may not be ideally conserved the momentum graph of the device may have a smaller amplitude and an opposing sign such as described above than the momentum velocity graph of the actuator.

The input waveform causes a haptic actuator of an electronic device to output a second type of haptic output described herein as a mini tap atom. The mini tap atom includes portions of the tap atom described above. For example various portions of a drive period and or the brake period of the mini tap atom may correspond to various portions of the drive period and or brake period of the tap atom. The mini tap atom creates a weaker but sharper tap sensation than the tap atom described above. However because the pulse duration of the mini tap atom is shorter than the tap atom in some instances the duration may be approximately twenty milliseconds for mini tap atom versus approximately thirty five milliseconds for the tap atom the mini tap atom may be played in sequence at a higher frequency i.e. another atom may be played after the mini tap atom sooner than an atom is played after the tap atom . Further the motion of the actuator mass for the mini tap atom does not use the maximum allowable displacement provided by the haptic actuator. Accordingly the risk of impact of the actuator mass with the haptic actuator is low.

As shown in the input waveform of the mini tap may be represented as a substantially square waveform having a positive voltage and a negative voltage . Each pulse of the positive voltage and the negative voltage may be applied at various times along a time period . For example a first voltage voltage value voltage having a first peak current or other electrical input may be applied at a first time a second voltage may be applied at a second time and a third voltage may be applied at a third time and so on. Further each of the applied voltages may cause a momentum or a velocity of the actuator mass of the haptic actuator to increase or decrease and or may cause a displacement of the actuator mass to increase or decrease.

For example when a first voltage is applied to the haptic actuator at a first time the first voltage causes the haptic actuator to provide a first electromotive force which moves the actuator mass of the haptic actuator in a first direction. At a second time a second voltage is applied to the haptic actuator. The second voltage causes the haptic actuator to provide a second electromotive force which moves the actuator mass of the haptic actuator in a second direction. The second electromotive force may have a polarity that is opposite from the first electromotive force and the second direction is opposite from the first direction. As will be discussed below the application of the electromotive forces in such a manner may shape the output waveform that is equivalent to the mini tap atom and its associated sensation.

Additional voltages may be applied at other discrete time periods in order to slow movement of the actuator mass. For example a third voltage may be applied at a third time to cause a third electromotive force a braking force to be applied to the actuator mass. As a result the actuator mass slows and eventually stops moving.

Although a square atom is shown and described the input waveform may have a variety of shapes including a sinusoidal waveform a saw tooth waveform and so on such as described above. Further the input waveform may have a frequency of between 40 Hz and 150 Hz although other frequencies may be used.

As with the input waveform of the input waveform consists of both a drive period and a brake period followed by a delay period . In some embodiments the drive period may be between approximately three milliseconds and approximately fifteen milliseconds. In addition the brake period may be between approximately three milliseconds and approximately fifteen milliseconds. The delay period after the mini tap atom is played or the recommended or required delay before the mini tap atom is played is approximately ten milliseconds or higher although other values including lower values may be used. In some implementations the total time for the mini tap atom may be approximately thirty three milliseconds. Thus the time between when the synthesizer engine begins playing the mini tap atom and the time when a subsequent atom may be played is approximately thirty three milliseconds although additional delays such as a silence atom may be introduced between atoms . As with other atoms the total time may vary in different embodiments and may be greater or less.

As discussed above the drive period may be caused by an electromotive force effectively pushing and or pulling on the actuator mass of the haptic actuator. Likewise the brake period may also be caused by the electromotive force pushing and or pulling on the actuator mass. The delay period is used as a safety margin and is present to prevent residual motion from cascading to a following atom.

The combination of the drive period and the brake period collectively make up an active period. The active period of the mini tap atom is approximately 1.5 cycles which is one full cycle less than the atom e.g. input waveform for the tap . In some embodiments the active period of the mini tap atom may be anywhere between approximately six milliseconds and thirty milliseconds. In one implementation the duration of the active period may be approximately twenty milliseconds. More specifically the input waveform for the mini tap atom includes a drive period of approximately 0.75 cycles which is used to accelerate the actuator mass of the haptic actuator. Likewise the input waveform for the mini tap atom includes a brake period of approximately 0.75 cycles that is used to brake or otherwise slow the actuator mass of the haptic actuator.

As also shown in the input waveform may have various other time parameters that are used to determine a desired actuation time of the haptic actuator Tspecified the actual actuation time of the haptic actuator Tactive and a delay time Tdelay that represents a time period that may be required between when a first atom is provided by a synthesizer engine and a second atom is provided by a synthesizer engine.

Although the input waveform is shown and described as a square waveform having rectangular pulses in certain embodiments a low pass filter either unidirectional or bidirectional may be applied to the input waveform such as described above. As also described above the height of any of the pulses in the input waveform may vary. For example the height of the final braking pulse shown in may be adjusted such as described herein. Likewise the input waveform may be adjusted to account for back EMF such as described above.

As shown in the output waveform may be represented as an oscillating wave. More specifically the output waveform may be represented as an oscillating wave that illustrates the displacement of an actuator mass of the haptic actuator at different time periods along a time period . Further each peak and trough of the output waveform may correspond to the peaks and troughs of the input waveform . That is the peak and trough of the drive period of the input waveform may cause displacement peak and displacement trough of the output waveform .

As shown in an actuator mass of a haptic actuator may be displaced a first distance represented by the displacement peak in the output waveform in response to a first voltage that is applied to the haptic actuator. The first voltage may cause a first electromotive force to be applied to the actuator mass. In the example of the displacement between the starting point of the output waveform and point may be equivalent to the time in which the first electromotive force provided by the first voltage pushes the actuator mass or has a first polarity that acts upon the actuator mass. As a result the first electromotive force causes the actuator mass to be displaced the first distance represented by the displacement peak .

When the second voltage is applied at a second time period the second voltage may cause a second electromotive force to be applied to the actuator mass. In certain embodiments the second voltage is applied when the sign of the displacement or the momentum of the actuator mass such as shown in changes from positive to negative or vice versa. In the example of the second electromotive force is a pull or has a second polarity that is opposite from the first polarity .

The second electromotive force or the pull causes the actuator mass to be displaced a second distance represented by the displacement trough . The pull may be provided between point and point as shown in . As also shown in the second displacement is greater than the first displacement. As with the tap atom described above the peak displacement caused by the applied voltages combined with the subsequent braking causes the haptic actuator to provide the mini tap haptic output.

Further as also shown in as the actuator mass crosses its point of origin the oscillating wave that represents the output waveform crosses a zero axis. Crossing of the axis in this manner is referred to as a zero crossing such as described above. Thus the haptic output associated with or provided by the mini tap atom may be provided by the haptic actuator in two or fewer zero crossings.

In order to generate a crisp mini tap the oscillation of the actuator mass should stop as quickly as possible after peak displacement or a peak momentum shown in has been achieved. As such a brake period may be applied to the haptic actuator for 0.75 cycles. More specifically various electromotive forces acting as a brake may be applied to the haptic actuator at different time periods. In some embodiments the various peaks and troughs of the brake period are represented as points and respectively shown on the output waveform .

Braking generally involves reversing the input waveform to remove energy from the haptic actuator. As shown in at a third time period a third voltage may be applied to the haptic actuator which causes a third electromotive force to be applied to the actuator mass of the haptic actuator. The third electromotive force may have a polarity that is opposite from the pull that was previously applied. As such the brake may cause the overall displacement of the actuator mass to decrease.

Likewise continuous application of a brake may cause the displacement of the actuator mass to further decrease until a displacement of zero or substantially zero has been reached. As with the brake discussed above with respect to the third time period the brake or more specifically the voltage that causes the actuator to slow may cause an electromotive force to be applied to the actuator mass that has a polarity that is the same as or opposite from the polarity of the push and or direction of movement of the actuator mass. The time that elapses between the beginning displacement and the time at which the actuator mass returns to a state of rest as a result of the brake period or a displacement of substantially zero over a given time period may be anywhere between approximately six milliseconds and approximately thirty milliseconds. In some embodiments the time period is approximately twenty milliseconds.

The device waveform may be similar to the output waveform . However the device waveform may have different or reduced amplitudes when compared against the amplitudes of the output waveform shown in due to the relatively larger mass of the device as compared to the actuator mass. Further the device waveform may have an opposite sign from the output waveform of the actuator as movement of actuator or the actuator mass causes an opposing motion of the device.

An actuator mass of a haptic actuator may have a first momentum represented by momentum trough in response to a first voltage that is applied to the haptic actuator at a first time. As discussed above the first voltage may cause a first electromotive force to be applied to the actuator mass in the form of a push. The first electromotive force causes the actuator mass to increase its momentum from zero or substantially zero to a first momentum represented by momentum trough .

When a second voltage is applied at a second time the second voltage may cause a second electromotive force to be applied to the actuator mass. Application of the second voltage may cause the sign of the momentum of the actuator mass changes from positive to negative or vice versa. The second electromotive force may be a pull which causes the actuator mass to have a second momentum represented by the momentum peak . In certain embodiments the second momentum is a peak momentum of the actuator mass.

Each peak and trough of the momentum velocity graph may be reached at corresponding zero crossings of the displacement graph in a similar manner as described above with respect to the momentum velocity graph and the displacement graph . That is peak may be reached at the same time the first zero crossing in the displacement graph occurs and so on. Likewise each peak and trough shown in the displacement graph may be reached at the same time a zero crossing occurs in the momentum velocity graph .

Further as also shown in as the actuator mass crosses its point of origin the sine wave that represents the momentum of the actuator mass crosses a zero axis. Thus the peak momentum and velocity as momentum may be considered a scalar of velocity when a mass is invariant as here of the actuator mass may be reached in two or fewer zero crossings.

In order to generate a sharp and or crisp mini tap sensation the momentum of the actuator mass should be stopped as quickly as possible after a peak momentum has been achieved. As such 0.75 cycles of a brake may be applied to the haptic actuator. In such embodiments the brake period of the input waveform may cause the momentum of the actuator mass decrease such as described above with respect to the displacement of the actuator mass.

For example at a third time a third voltage may be applied to the haptic actuator which causes a third electromotive force to be applied to the actuator mass of the haptic actuator. The third electromotive force causes the momentum of the actuator mass to decrease insofar as the velocity decreases and the mass remains constant. Likewise application of additional electromotive forces during the brake period may cause the momentum of the actuator mass to further decrease until a momentum of zero or substantially zero has been reached. In some instances the actuator mass may have a small amount of trailing momentum. However because the amount of movement and momentum is below a threshold the movement or momentum does not cause a perceptible haptic output nor does it account for or count as a zero crossing such as described herein.

The time that elapses between the actuator mass increasing its momentum from zero or substantially zero to the time at which the actuator mass reaches a peak momentum and subsequently returns to zero or substantially zero may be between six milliseconds and thirty milliseconds. In some implementations the time may be approximately twenty milliseconds. In addition to the above the peak momentum may be between approximately 1500 gram millimeters per second and approximately 2000 gram millimeters per second.

The momentum and or velocity of a device with respect to the mini tap atom may also be represented as an output waveform. The output waveform that represents the momentum and or velocity of the device may have an intensity or an amplitude that is smaller than the intensity or the amplitude of the momentum velocity graph shown above with respect to and have an opposing sign. Further the velocity of the device may be smaller when compared to the velocity of the actuator mass because the device has a mass that is greater than the mass of the actuator.

The input waveform causes a haptic actuator of an electronic device to provide the haptic output described herein as a micro tap. The micro tap atom consists of one half period of a drive period followed by one half period of a brake period . The drive period may be between approximately three milliseconds and approximately ten milliseconds. In addition the brake period may be between approximately three milliseconds and ten milliseconds. The combination of the drive period and the brake period collectively make up an active period. The active period may be between approximately six milliseconds and twenty milliseconds. In other embodiments the active period may be approximately fifteen milliseconds. As with the other types of atoms described herein a delay period may be provided after the micro tap atom to ensure any residual motion of the actuator mass has ceased. The delay period after the micro tap atom is played or the recommended or required delay before the micro tap atom is played may be approximately five milliseconds or higher although other values including lower values may be used. In some implementations the total time for the micro tap atom may be approximately twenty milliseconds although this may vary between embodiments. Thus the time between when the synthesizer engine begins playing the micro tap atom and the time when a subsequent atom may be played is approximately twenty milliseconds although additional delays such as a silence atom may be introduced between atoms .

The micro tap atom may include portions of either the tap atom or the mini tap atom described above. For example various portions of a drive period and or the brake period of the micro tap atom may correspond to various portions of the drive period and or brake period of the tap atom and or the mini tap atom. The micro tap atom creates a weaker but sharper sensation than the mini tap atom described above. Since the pulse duration of the micro tap atom is shorter than the duration of the mini tap atom a micro tap atom may be sequenced with another atom at a higher frequency than both the tap atom and the mini tap atom. Further the motion of the actuator mass for the micro tap atom is much less than the maximum allowable displacement provided by the haptic actuator. Accordingly the risk of impact of the actuator mass with the haptic actuator is very low.

As shown in the input waveform of the micro tap atom may be represented as a substantially square waveform having a first voltage and a second voltage . The first voltage and the second voltage may be applied at various times along a time period . For example a first voltage may be applied during the drive period and the second voltage may be applied during the brake period . Further each of the applied voltages cause a momentum and velocity of the actuator mass of the haptic actuator to increase or decrease and or may cause a displacement momentum and or velocity of the actuator mass to increase or decrease.

In one example the first voltage may be applied to the haptic actuator at a first time e.g. during the drive period . The first voltage provides a first electromotive force which moves the actuator mass of the haptic actuator in a first direction. At a second time e.g. during the brake period the second voltage is applied to the haptic actuator. The second voltage provides a second electromotive force which causes the displacement and or momentum of the actuator mass to decrease. The second electromotive force may have a polarity that is the same as the polarity of the first electromotive force.

Continuing with the push and pull examples from above the first electromotive force represented by the first voltage may be a push which causes the actuator mass to move from a first position to a second position. Likewise the second voltage may also cause a push e.g. a push to slow which causes the displacement of the actuator mass to decrease.

The combination of the drive period and the brake period is equivalent to an input waveform having an overall drive of approximately one period. More specifically the input waveform for the micro tap atom includes a drive period of approximately half of a cycle which is used to accelerate the actuator mass of the haptic actuator. Likewise the input waveform for the micro tap atom includes a brake period of approximately half a cycle that is used to brake or otherwise slow the actuator mass of the haptic actuator.

The input waveform may have various other time parameters associated with it. As discussed above with respect to and input waveform may include a Tspecified parameter that is used to determine a desired actuation time of the haptic actuator a Tactive parameter that represents the actual actuation time of the haptic actuator and a Tdelay parameter that represents a time period that may be required between when a first atom is provided by a synthesizer engine and a second atom is provided by a synthesizer engine.

Although the input waveform is shown and described as a substantially square waveform a low pass filter may be applied to the input waveform such as described above. As also described above the height of any of the pulses in the input waveform may vary to account for back EMF and the like such as described herein.

As shown in an actuator mass of a haptic actuator may be displaced a first distance represented by the displacement peak in the output waveform in response to a first voltage that is applied to the haptic actuator. The first voltage may cause a first electromotive force to be applied to the actuator mass. In the example of the first electromotive force may be a push or have a first polarity which causes the actuator mass to be displaced a first distance or otherwise moved from its nominal position to a first position represented by the displacement peak . The displacement between the starting point of the output waveform and point may be equivalent to the time in which the first electromotive force provided by the first voltage pushes the actuator mass and as a result causes the actuator mass to be displaced the first distance.

When the second voltage is applied at a second time period the second voltage may cause a second electromotive force to be applied to the actuator mass. The second voltage is applied shortly after the displacement or the momentum of the actuator mass such as shown in changes from positive to negative or vice versa. In the example of the second electromotive force is also a push or has the same polarity as the first electromotive force also known as a push to stop . That is a push is used to start the movement of the actuator mass in a first direction. Once the actuator mass has reached a peak displacement and is returning to the origin a second push is applied to the actuator mass to slow and eventually stop the actuator mass from crossing its original point of origin. Thus the micro tap haptic output may be provided by the haptic actuator in one or less than one zero crossing. The push to stop may be represented as the distance between point and the end of the output waveform .

As shown in the device waveform is similar to the output waveform . However the device waveform may have a different or a reduced intensity or amplitude when compared against the intensity or amplitude shown in due to the relatively larger mass of the device as compared to the actuator mass. Further the device waveform may have an opposite sign from the output waveform as movement of actuator or actuator mass causes an opposing motion of the device.

As shown in an actuator mass of a haptic actuator may reach a first momentum represented by peak in response to a first voltage that is applied to the haptic actuator during the drive period . As discussed above the first voltage may cause a first electromotive force to be applied to the actuator mass in the form of a push. The first electromotive force causes the actuator mass to increase its momentum from zero or substantially zero to a first momentum represented by peak . The peak momentum may be between approximately 1500 gram millimeters per second and approximately 2000 gram millimeters per second.

As shown in the actuator mass does not cross its point of origin or its original state of rest prior to reaching its peak momentum. Thus the peak momentum and velocity of the actuator mass may be reached in one or less than one zero crossing. In certain embodiments the time that elapses between the actuator mass increasing its velocity and thus its momentum from zero or substantially zero to the time at which the actuator mass returns a momentum of zero or substantially zero may be between approximately six milliseconds and approximately twenty milliseconds. In some implementations the elapsed time may be approximately fifteen milliseconds.

The momentum and or velocity of a device with respect to the micro tap atom may also be represented as an output waveform. The output waveform that represents the momentum and or velocity of the device may have an intensity or amplitude that is less than the intensity or the amplitude of the momentum velocity graph shown above with respect to and have an opposing sign. Further the velocity of the device may be smaller when compared to the velocity of the actuator mass because the device has a mass that is greater than the mass of the actuator.

The input waveform may benefit from the resonance of the haptic actuator. As such the maximum drive amplitude of the sine atom may not need to be as great as the maximum drive amplitude of the input waveform for the tap atom described above in order to maintain the same displacement of the actuator mass and or electronic device. However because the maximum drive amplitude for the sine atom is reduced the sine atom may take some time to ramp up and or wind down subject to the sine atom being combined with other atoms such as described below .

While a sine wave is specifically mentioned with respect to embodiments disclosed herein may be represented as any regular periodic oscillating wave or a simple harmonic oscillating wave. Likewise the same may be said of the other sine waves described below.

Referring to A the input waveform comprises different time variables such as Tspecified Tactive and Tdelay such as described above. For example the duration of the input waveform set by Tspecified may be equivalent to a desired number of cycles or a desired amount of time that the input waveform is to be played by a synthesizer engine. However the synthesizer engine may be configured to play or otherwise fit the largest number of sine cycles into the time specified or requested. As a result the synthesizer engine may determine that N number of cycles may be played during Tspecified and as a result play the N number of complete cycles for the duration set forth in Tactive .

Tdelay represents an amount of time or a recommended delay between when the synthesizer engine stops playing the input waveform and begins playing a subsequent atom. In some embodiments Tdelay for the input waveform is approximately one hundred milliseconds or higher although other values including lower values may be used.

When the input waveform is applied to a haptic actuator such as for example haptic actuator the actuator mass of the haptic actuator may require some cycles to ramp up to its peak amplitude or its steady state amplitude. This is represented in . For example as shown in when power is first applied to the haptic actuator the first peak and trough of the output waveform that indicates a displacement of the actuator mass are less than a peak displacement or a peak amplitude during steady state. In some implementations a peak momentum of the actuator mass may be achieved between three and four zero crossings.

When power is no longer applied to the haptic actuator e.g. when the synthesizer engine stops playing the input waveform residual motion of the actuator mass may persist for a time. More specifically because the input waveform does not include a brake period such as described above with respect to the other atoms the actuator mass may slow its oscillation or non oscillating motion and eventually stop once the synthesizer engine stops playing the input waveform .

As the movement of the actuator mass of the haptic actuator may take more than one cycle to achieve steady state amplitude the haptic output associated with the sine atom may not be as crisp and or sharp as the other embodiments described herein. That is there may be slight leading haptic outputs and slight trailing haptic outputs.

However one or more embodiments disclosed enable a portion of the input waveform such as described above with respect to to be combined with the input waveform of . The resulting combination is the sine with a boost input waveform shown with respect to . This atom reduces the slight leading haptic output of the sine atom and provides a crisper sharper start to the haptic output.

For example illustrates an example input waveform for producing a fifth type of haptic output according to one or more embodiments of the present disclosure. In addition illustrates an example output waveform that represents a displacement of an actuator mass over a time period in response to the input waveform . In certain embodiments the fifth type of haptic output and the input waveform may be described a sine with a boost.

The sine with a boost input waveform comprises the time variables Tspecified Tactive and Tdelay such as described above. The Tdelay after the sine with a boost input waveform is played or the recommended or required Tdelay before the sine with a boost input waveform is played is approximately one hundred milliseconds or higher although other values including lower values may be used.

In addition the boost portion of the sine with a boost input waveform consists of a portion of the input waveform described above. More specifically and as shown in the boost portion of the sine with a boost input waveform may consist of approximately half of the drive period shown and described above with respect to the tap atom. As such the boost may be represented as a substantially square atom or a portion of a square atom such as shown in .

Put another way the sine a with boost may be a regular periodic oscillating wave or a simple harmonic oscillating wave preceded by a boost. The boost portion has an amplitude that is greater than a peak amplitude of the regular periodic oscillating wave. As such the boost may cause the actuator to peak at a steady state displacement or within a particular percentage e.g. 10 of the steady state amplitude within 1 2 cycles or before a set period of time has elapsed. That is the boost may cause the actuator mass of the haptic actuator to reach a peak amplitude of the sine with a boost atom in its first or second cycle. Likewise peak momentum of the actuator mass may be reached between three and four zero crossings. Once peak amplitude has been reached the remaining sine wave may enable the actuator mass to remain oscillating at the steady state peak amplitude until the drive wave is stopped.

However because it may take time for actuator mass to return to a state of rest such as shown in once the sine with a boost input waveform is no longer applied to the haptic actuator the haptic output provided by the input waveform may have trailing haptic output due to the residual movement of the actuator mass.

Likewise illustrates an example input waveform for producing a sixth type of haptic output known herein as sine with a brake atom according to one or more embodiments of the present disclosure. In addition illustrates an example output waveform that represents a displacement of an actuator mass in response to the input waveform over a time period . As shown in the input waveform comprises different time variables described as Tspecified Tactive and Tdelay such as described above. The Tdelay after the input waveform for the sine with a brake atom is played or the recommended or required Tdelay before the atom for the sine with a brake is played is approximately thirty milliseconds or higher although other values including lower values may be used.

The sine with a brake input waveform may be used to abruptly stop a sine oscillation. As such a braking period such as for example the brake period of the input waveform described above with respect to may be added to the tail end of the sine with a brake input waveform . Introduction of a brake causes the displacement of the actuator mass to abruptly stop such as described above and shown in .

Thus although the haptic actuator may take a few cycles to ramp up prior to oscillation any residual motion of the actuator mass may be reduced by application of a brake such as shown. The brake period that is applied to the input waveform may cause the actuator mass to go from peak momentum to the ringdown threshold or below within four or fewer zero crossings and in some implementations three or fewer zero crossings. A delay may be provided after the active period and before the braking starts so that the braking is out of phase with the motion of the actuator. For example in some implementations a delay of 0.225 periods is provided after the sine wave and before the braking so that the braking is approximately 180 degrees out of phase with motion of the actuator.

Although the sine with a brake atom is shown and described as a sine wave the sine with a brake atom may be represented as any regular periodic oscillating wave or a simple harmonic oscillating wave with a brake following the oscillating wave. In some embodiments the brake portion has an amplitude that is greater than a peak amplitude of the regular periodic oscillating wave.

In addition illustrates an example output waveform that represents a displacement of an actuator mass in response to the input waveform over a time period . The haptic output provided by the input waveform may be described as a sine with a boost and a brake. Although a sine wave is shown and described with respect to the sine with a boost and a brake may be represented as any regular periodic oscillating wave or a simple harmonic oscillating wave preceded by a boost and followed by a brake.

The sine with a boost and a brake input waveform may be a combination of the sine with a boost input waveform and the sine with a brake input waveform described above. As a result when the sine with a boost and a brake input waveform is played by a haptic actuator the start of the haptic output is crisp much like the input waveform for the tap atom described above. Likewise when movement of the actuator mass is to cease a brake and more specifically a brake period of the input waveform may be appended to the end of the sine with a boost and a brake input waveform . As shown in the output waveform that represents the displacement of an actuator mass of a haptic actuator may have both a crisp start and a crisp stop thereby reducing or eliminating any wind up or wind down haptic output.

In some cases it may be desirable to have a haptic output in which an amplitude of the output waveform increases from zero or substantially zero to a peak amplitude in a ramped configuration. In other embodiments it may be desirable to loosen the actuator mass e.g. have the actuator mass move slightly to overcome any friction present in the actuator prior to an atom being played by a synthesizer engine. However and as mentioned above friction may be present in the actuator e.g. static friction and or dynamic or kinetic friction between various components in the actuator . Due to the friction it may be difficult to generate an output waveform that has the desired characteristics. For example a minimum amount of force may be required in order for the actuator mass to begin moving. However if too much power is applied by the input waveform at the start the output waveform may not have the desired ramping shape. On the other hand if too little power is applied by the input waveform at the start the actuator mass may not have enough force to overcome the friction and begin movement.

In order to solve the aforementioned problem a frequency chirp or frequency shift may be applied to an input waveform. For example and turning to an input waveform having an applied frequency chirp may be used to produce the output waveform of . That is the input waveform may begin off resonance and slowly move to the resonance frequency. For example if resonance frequency f of the input waveform is approximately 150 Hz the input waveform may be played at a frequency of 130 Hz off resonance to start and move toward 150 Hz on resonance . As the frequency of the input waveform shifts from off resonance to on resonance the amplitude of the resulting output waveform increases. The resulting output waveform may have the desired ramped configuration such as shown in . Although the above example illustrates the frequency increasing from off resonance to on resonance the frequency change from off resonance to on resonance may decrease. For example if the resonance frequency of a sine wave was 150 Hz the off resonance may begin at 1.80 Hz and decrease to 150 Hz.

Using a frequency chirp such as shown and described above enables the input waveform to be driven at full amplitude. Because the input waveform is driven at full amplitude the input waveform produces a high amount of force that is applied to the actuator mass which helps the actuator mass overcome the friction that is present in the actuator. As the frequency of the input waveform shifts the amplitude of the actuator mass may linearly increase.

In another implementation such as shown in an input waveform may include a boost at the beginning of the input waveform . This boost may enable the actuator mass to break free of the friction that is present in the actuator. Once the boost is applied a frequency chirp may also be applied to the input waveform such as described above with respect to . Using the boost and the frequency chirp the resulting output waveform may have a ramped configuration such as shown in . Once the input waveform is no longer applied movement of the actuator mass may slowly decrease until it reaches the ringdown threshold and or stops moving.

However unlike the sine atom described above with respect to A the input waveform may start off resonance. For example the resonance frequency of any input waveform may be represented as f. However because the input waveform may be off resonance its frequency may be represented as f where n is equivalent to some frequency shift. In some implementations n may be approximately 10 Hz although other values for n may be used such values may be either absolute e.g. a fixed frequency shift or relative e.g. a frequency shift based on the input or corresponding output waveform such as of the input waveform frequency.

Although the input waveform may start off resonance as the input waveform is applied to the haptic actuator the input waveform may optionally move to the resonance frequency. As the input waveform is played by the haptic actuator the movement of the actuator or the actuator mass may be represented as an output waveform shown in .

However one potential problem with the output waveform is that the movement of the actuator and more specifically the movement of the actuator mass may exceed movement bounds set by the enclosure of the haptic actuator. More specifically application of the input waveform to the actuator my cause the actuator mass to impact one or more sidewalls of the enclosure of the haptic actuator.

For example and as shown in application of the input waveform may cause movement of the actuator mass to spike at the beginning of the output waveform . As time passes movement of the actuator mass may settle to the off resonance frequency or eventually to the resonance frequency such as shown.

In order to compensate for the extra movement of the actuator mass at the beginning of the output waveform the enclosure or case of the haptic actuator may be expanded. However this solution may not be desirable as the expansion of the enclosure of the haptic actuator may occupy valuable real estate within the electronic device.

As an alternative to expanding the enclosure of the haptic actuator input waveform may be replaced by input waveform shown in . The input waveform may be a sine wave although other waveforms may be used. Like input waveform the input waveform may have a resonance frequency for may be off resonance and represented as f where n is equivalent to some frequency shift.

In some embodiments the input waveform may be bound by an envelope so that the input waveform has a ramped configuration. More specifically the sine wave of the input waveform begins with a smaller amplitude as it is bound by the envelope and increases over a given time period. Although not required as the input waveform is provided to the haptic actuator the input waveform may transition from off resonance to the resonance frequency.

Although the envelope is shown as having a straight line as its upper and lower bounds in some implementations the upper and lower bounds of the envelope may increase over time until maximum bounds are met. Put another way the start of the envelope may increase by a first slope over a first amount of time and increase by a second smaller slope over a second amount of time. The second amount of time may be longer than the first amount of time. In implementations in which the second slope increases the second slope may increase until a maximum bound is met.

As shown in the displacement of the actuator may be bound by an envelope . Like envelope envelope has a ramped configuration. Thus movement of the actuator may increase by a first slope during a first period and remain steady or increase by a second slope during a second period of time. Although the bounds of the envelope of the first slope are shown as linearly increasing the input waveform may cause the actuator to slightly move beyond the initial bounds of the envelope such as shown in . However even if movement of the actuator passes the bounds of the first slope the actuator mass will not impact the sides of the enclosure of the haptic actuator.

Put another way and in contrast to the input waveform and the output waveform shown and described above with respect to the input waveform output waveform will allow the movement of the actuator to ramp up to peak displacement but not permit the actuator mass to impact one or more sidewalls of the enclosure of the haptic actuator.

Although not specifically shown in the various input waveforms and may include the various parameters e.g. Tactive Tspecified Tdelay such as described above. For example these variables may be similar to the variables for the input waveform shown and described above with respect to .

Additionally the various input atoms described herein and more particularly the various atoms described above with respect to and may be operated on by waveform effectors to create various input waveforms. These effectors may define scaling functions that limit the intensities or the amplitudes of signals. As one example the effector may be used to limit or otherwise provide a rate of change of a parameter such as for example a rate of change of a parameter from a peak to zero from zero to a peak and so on. In certain embodiments an effector may be used to modify the amplitude of a waveform. More specifically various effectors may be used to restrict or otherwise modify the intensities or the amplitudes of various waveforms in order to change a haptic output caused by the waveform. In certain embodiments the time period associated with the effector the angle or curvature of the effector as well as beginning parameter values and ending parameter values may all be customizable and or selected by a developer designer or a user or be based on an application a type of alert notification and so on.

In some cases it may be desirable to scale input waveforms e.g. input atoms by applying a function or factor in order to vary an output waveform e.g. output atom . For example if an output waveform of steadily increasing intensity is desired one may accomplish this by steadily increasing the amplitude of an input waveform. Given the foregoing example the effectors described below of may be applied to one or more input atoms to produce an output waveform having steadily increasing intensity.

Thus effectors may be thought of as scaling functions that may be applied across a certain time e.g. predefined or definable by a developer or designer to one or more atoms in order to produce a desired output. The effector may be time limited or may be applied indefinitely.

It should be appreciated that many other effectors may be configured and applied to input atoms to generate any number and or variety of output atoms. Accordingly the three effectors shown in are examples only and not meant to be limiting in any fashion. For example and while not shown in the figures one or more effectors may be used to linearly or otherwise reduce the maximum allowable amplitude non linearly increase the maximum allowable amplitude and so on.

As previously discussed embodiments described herein enable the generation creation and or use of a haptic language. The haptic language may be used or associated with the various example alert events described above. As also discussed the haptic language may be described as a sequence of multiple haptic atoms that are arranged in a particular pattern over a time period.

For example as shown in the sequence of atoms may include a first atom followed by multiple iterations of a second atom . In the illustrated example the first atom is a tap and the second atom is a micro tap. Although a particular sequence combination and number of atoms are shown in the various atoms described herein may be combinable in many different ways.

The sequence of atoms and more specifically the starting point of each atom in the sequence may be specified in seconds. For example the first atom may start at 0.068 seconds while each of the second atoms may start at 0.642 seconds 0.962 seconds and 1.493 seconds respectively. An actuator mass of the haptic actuator may be returned to its nominal position after each atom in the sequence has been completed.

The sequence of atoms may also include a silence atom . As shown in the silence atom may be played between various atoms in the sequence of atoms . For example and as shown in a silence atom may be played between the first atom and the second atom as well as between each iteration of the second atom . The silence atom may be played individually or in sequence. Further the length of the silence atom may be adjusted based on for example the type of alert event with which the sequence of atoms is associated. In some embodiments the actuator mass of the haptic actuator remains in its nominal position or reaches a minimum movement threshold as each silence atom is played.

As also show in an audio output waveform may be played in conjunction with or synchronized with the haptic output provided by the sequence of atoms . The audio output waveform may be played before during or after an atom starts playing. More specifically playback of the audio output waveform may be initiated based on the type of atom to which the audio output waveform is being synchronized. For example the audio output waveform may begin playing at the start of or during the brake period of a tap atom or it may begin playing at the end of either the brake or delay period of a mini tap atom or micro tap atom. In another example the playback of the audio waveform associated with the tap atom may begin playing at the end of either the brake period or the delay period while the playback of the audio waveform may begin playing at the start of or during the brake period of the mini tap atom or micro tap atom. Although specific examples are given the playback of the audio waveform may be initiated at various times during or after the active periods of each atom.

The intensity of the audio output waveform may also vary based on for example the type of haptic atom being played by the electronic device. For example an audio waveform associated with a tap atom may be played with a greater intensity than the intensities of an audio waveform associated with a mini tap atom or a micro tap atom.

In some embodiments the audio output waveform associated with the mini tap atom may have an intensity that is less than 100 percent e.g. approximately eighty percent of the audio waveform intensity of the tap atom and as discussed above playback may start at the beginning of or during the brake period of the mini tap atom. In another embodiment the playback of the audio waveform may start before the beginning of the brake period or sometime after the end of the brake period of the mini tap atom.

Likewise the audio waveform associated with the micro tap atom may have an intensity that is even less than that of the mini tap atom e.g. approximately twenty percent of the peak intensity of the audio waveform associated with the tap atom and playback may start at the end of the micro tap atom e.g. when the brake period ends or at other various times either before during or after the brake period such as described above. Audio waveform playback delay also may be based on the size and or material of the electronic device the haptic actuator or any combination of the above.

Although specific offsets between atoms and audio waveforms have been discussed the offsets between the waveforms may vary based on for example user preference event notifications haptic language the type of atom being played and so on. For example the delay between haptic output and an audio waveform may vary based on the type of atom being played. In some embodiments there may be a longer delay between weaker atoms and audio waveforms than stronger atoms and the audio waveforms. That is there may be a longer delay between a micro tap atom and an audio waveform than between a tap atom and an audio waveform. In other embodiments the delay between the audio waveform and the weaker atoms may be shorter than the delay between the audio waveforms and the stronger atoms. In still yet another embodiments there may be no difference in the delay between the audio waveforms and the weaker atoms and the stronger atoms.

In some cases the electronic device may be a wearable electronic device. In particular the electronic device may include a device body or a housing that may be configured to be attached to the wrist of a user using a band or band assembly. This configuration may also be referred to herein as a wearable device a wearable electronic device a device and so on.

Although a wearable electronic device is specifically mentioned and shown with respect to the embodiments disclosed herein may be used with any number of electronic devices. For example the electronic device may be a mobile phone such as shown in a tablet computer such as shown in a laptop computer or other portable electronic device a time keeping device a pair of computerized glasses a navigation device a sports device a portable music player a health device a medical device and the like. As such similar reference number may be used in each of C.

The electronic device may be configured to receive or identify various alert events or notifications. As discussed above these alert events or notifications may include but are not limited to 1 incoming and or outgoing text based communications 2 incoming and or outgoing voice image and or video communications 3 calendaring and or appointment notifications 4 device alert notifications 5 location and or directional based notifications 6 application based notifications 7 time based notifications and 8 health related notifications.

When alert events or notifications are received or identified the electronic device may be configured to provide haptic output that is associated with each alert event or notification. In certain embodiments each alert event or notification has a unique haptic output that is provided by the electronic device when the event notification is received identified and or occurs. Thus when one alert event or notification occurs the electronic device provides a haptic output associated that particular alert event or notification. Likewise when a second alert event or notification is received identified or occurs the electronic device provides a second different haptic output. Thus the user or wearer of the electronic device may be able to distinguish one alert event or notification from other alert events or notifications.

In certain embodiments the haptic output provided by the electronic device may be made up of atoms that are stitched together in sequence or otherwise combined to create different patterns or combinations of haptic output. For example a first sequence of atoms may consist of a first type of haptic output provided at a first time followed by a second type of haptic output at a second time followed by a third type of haptic output at a third time. In another example the electronic device may provide a second set of atoms that are stitched together in sequence to provide a second type of haptic output. In this example the second type of haptic output may consist of a first type of haptic output followed by three iterations of a second type of haptic output.

In each of the examples above a time delay may be interspersed between each atom. The time delay may be based on the atom itself or may be a silence type atom in which no haptic output and or audio output is provided by the electronic device .

Once the atoms are stitched together such as described each atom or parts of each atom in the sequence of atoms may need to be adjusted or modulated based on for example calibration data associated with each actuator. In some embodiments the sequence of atoms may be modulated to fit within power constraints of the electronic device . As discussed above the atoms may be calibrated or modulated to account for the ambient temperature surrounding the electronic device the operating temperature of the electronic device itself user preferences and so on.

More specifically once the atoms are stitched together various calibration gains may be applied to the sequence of atoms. In some embodiments the calibration gains may be used to increase or decrease the amplitude of one or more of the atoms or parts of the atoms in the sequence. Once the calibration gains have been applied one or more envelopes e.g. the envelopes described above with respect to may be applied to the sequence of atoms. The sequence of atoms may also be modulated based on operating temperature or ambient temperature associated with the electronic device as well as on user output preferences.

Referring hack to the electronic device may include a display that is integrated with the case of the device body or housing . The display may be formed from a liquid crystal display LCD organic light emitting diode OLED display organic electroluminescence OEL display or other type of display. The display may be used to present visual information to a user and may be operated in accordance with one or more display modes or the software applications being executed by or on the electronic device .

By way of example the display may be configured to present the current time and date similar to a traditional watch or timepiece. The display may also present a variety of other visual information. This visual information may correspond to applications that are being executed by the electronic device . In other embodiments the visual information may be produced or generated using one of the other modules in the electronic device .

For example the display may be configured to display a notification message. This notification message may be produced using a wireless communications subsystem a sensor module or other subsystem of the electronic device . The display may also be configured to present visual information or data that is based on the output of one or more sensor outputs. The display may also provide status or information related to a wireless charging process or battery power or may present visual output or information related to one or more applications being executed by the electronic device . The display may further be used to display information about media content being produced using a speaker or acoustic module of the electronic device . Accordingly a variety of other types of visual output or information may be presented using the display .

In some instances a touch sensor not shown may be integrated with the display or other element of the electronic device . The touch sensor may be formed from one or more capacitive sensor electrodes or nodes that are configured to detect the presence and or location of an object or the user s finger that is touching the surface of the display . The touch sensor may include an array of sensing nodes formed in accordance with a mutual capacitance sensing scheme. Alternatively or additionally the touch sensor may include one or more self capacitive nodes or electrodes that are configured to detect a change in capacitive coupling when an object such as a user s finger contacts or nearly contacts a surface of the device body or other surface of the electronic device . Other types of electronically sensing elements or nodes including resistive optical inductive or the like may also be integrated into a surface of the electronic device .

Although not shown the electronic device may also include a force sensor. The force sensor may be integrated with the display or other element of the electronic device . When present the force sensor may include one or more force sensing structures or force sensing nodes for detecting and measuring the magnitude of a pressure of a touch on a surface of the electronic device . In some embodiments the force sensor may be formed from or implement one or more types of sensor configurations. For example capacitive and or strain based sensor configurations may be used alone or in combination to detect and measure the magnitude of a touch. More specifically a capacitive force sensor may be configured to detect the magnitude of a touch based on the displacement of a surface or element on the device. Additionally or alternatively a strain based force sensor may be configured to detect the magnitude of a touch based on a deflection of the display or another part of the electronic device .

As also shown in the electronic device also includes one or more buttons and a crown that may be used to receive user input. In some embodiments the haptic output discussed herein may be in response to actuation of the one or more buttons and or the crown . For example as the crown rotates haptic output may be provided to simulate a winding or turning sensation. Likewise if the button is actuated haptic output may be provided to inform the user that the actuation of the button was received. Although not shown the device body may also integrate other types of user input devices or modules including for example dials slides roller balls or similar input devices or mechanisms.

The electronic device may also include one or more openings or orifices coupled to an acoustic module not shown which may include a speaker and or a microphone subassembly. The speaker may be configured to output audio alerts along with the haptic output provided by one or more haptic actuators.

The electronic device may also include a band . The band may include a first band strap having one end removably attached to the device body and the other end configured to be removably attached to the second band strap using for example a band clasp or other such attachment mechanism. Likewise the band may include a second band strap in which one end of the second band strap is attached to the device body and the other end being attached to the first band strap. In some embodiments the band may be formed from a variety of materials including for example leather woven textiles or metallic mesh materials.

In other embodiments the electronic device may include a clip a lanyard or necklace. In still further examples the electronic device may be secured to or within another part of a user s body. In these and other embodiments the strap band lanyard or other securing mechanism may include one or more electronic components or sensors in wireless or wired communication with an accessory. For example the band that is secured to the electronic device may include one or more sensors an auxiliary battery a camera or any other suitable electronic component.

Further the electronic device may include other components not shown or described above. For example the electronic device may include a keyboard or other input mechanism. Additionally the electronic device may include one or more components that enable the electronic device to connect to the internet and or access one or more remote databases or storage devices. The electronic device may also enable communication over wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF near field communication infrared and other wireless media mediums. Such communication channels may enable the electronic device to remotely connect and communicate with one or more additional devices such as for example a laptop computer tablet computer mobile telephone personal digital assistant portable music player speakers and or headphones and the like.

The processor may be implemented as any electronic device capable of processing receiving or transmitting data or instructions. For example the processor can be a microprocessor a central processing unit CPU an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP or combinations of such devices.

The electronic device may also include a synthesizer engine . In some embodiments the synthesizer engine can be part of the processor . In another embodiment the synthesizer engine may be a separate module or part of the haptic actuator . The synthesizer engine is configured to generate and or provide instructions or voltage waveforms for recreating a haptic atom or sequence of atoms along with any effectors to a haptic actuator of the electronic device . For example depending on the type of alert event or notification that is received or identified the synthesizer engine may provide or generate corresponding input waveforms to the haptic actuator . This information may be generated and provided to the haptic actuator in real time. The information provided to the haptic actuator may also include the time e.g. Tspecified that each waveform is to be output such as described above. In some embodiments each of the time periods specified above such as for example Tspecified may be encoded within the input waveform. The synthesizer engine may also provide instructions to other modules which cause additional output to be provided. For example the synthesizer engine may instruct or otherwise cause a speaker to provide audio output with a given haptic output.

The memory can store electronic data that can be used by the electronic device . For example the memory can store electrical data or content such as for example audio and video files documents and applications device settings and user preferences timing and control signals or data for the various modules data structures or databases and so on. The memory may also store instructions for recreating the various types of haptic atoms that may be used to form the haptic language disclosed herein. The memory may be any type of memory such as for example random access memory read only memory Flash memory removable memory or other types of storage elements or combinations of such devices.

As briefly discussed above the electronic device may include various input and output components represented in as components . Although the I O components are represented as a single item the electronic device may include a number of different input components including buttons microphones switches and dials for accepting user input. More specifically the I O components may correspond to the button and crown depicted in . In some embodiments the I O components may include one or more touch sensor and or force sensors. For example the display may include one or more touch sensors and or one or more force sensors that enable a user to provide input to the electronic device .

Each of the I O components may include specialized circuitry for generating signals or data. In some cases the I O components may produce or provide feedback for application specific input that corresponds to a prompt or user interface object presented on display . For example the crown may be used to receive rotational input from a user which may be translated into an instruction to scroll or scale a list or object presented on the display .

The electronic device may also include one or more communication channels . These communication channels may include one or more wireless interfaces that provide communications between the processor and an external device or other electronic device. In general the one or more communication channels may be configured to transmit and receive data and or signals that may be interpreted by instructions executed on the processor . In some cases the external device is part of an external communication network that is configured to exchange data with other devices. Generally the wireless interface may include without limitation radio frequency optical acoustic and or magnetic signals and may be configured to operate over a wireless interface or protocol. Example wireless interfaces include radio frequency cellular interfaces fiber optic interfaces acoustic interfaces Bluetooth interfaces Near Field Communication interfaces infrared interfaces USB interfaces Wi Fi interfaces TCP IP interfaces network communications interfaces or any conventional communication interfaces.

In some implementations the one or more communication channels may include a wireless communication channel between the electronic device and another device such as a mobile phone tablet computer or the like. In some cases output audio output haptic output or visual display elements may be transmitted directly to the other device for output. For example an audible alert or visual warning may be transmitted from the electronic device to a mobile phone for output on that device and vice versa. Similarly the one or more communication channels may be configured to receive input provided on another device to control the electronic device . For example an audible alert visual notification or haptic alert or instructions therefor may be transmitted from the external device to electronic device for presentation.

The electronic device may also include one or more sensors . Although a single representation of a sensor is shown in the electronic device may have many sensors. These sensors may include biometric sensors temperature sensors accelerometers barometric sensors moisture sensors and so on.

One or more one or more acoustic modules or speakers may also be included in the electronic device . The speaker may be configured to produce an audible sound or an acoustic signal. For example the speaker may comprise a high fidelity class D audio driver. The speaker may be used to provide an audible sound that is associated with a particular type of haptic output. In such embodiments the audible sound may vary based on the type of haptic output provided. In addition the audible sound may be output with a slight delay with respect to the haptic output. However the user s perception of the haptic output and the audio output may be such that the outputs are perceived simultaneously or substantially simultaneously. Alternatively or additionally the speaker may be configured to operate as a microphone that receives an audible sound or acoustic signal.

As also shown in the electronic device may include one or more haptic actuators . The haptic actuators may be any type of haptic actuator including rotational haptic devices linear haptic actuators piezoelectric devices vibration elements and so on. The haptic actuator is configured to receive instructions for recreating various haptic atoms from the synthesizer engine and provide punctuated and distinct feedback to a user of the device such as described above.

For example the haptic actuator may provide haptic output to notify a user of the electronic device of a particular condition of the electronic device . The haptic output may also be used to notify the user of an incoming text message phone call email message or other such communication. The haptic output may also notify a user of upcoming appointments and other notifications from various applications on each of the devices.

In some cases the haptic actuator may be operatively coupled to another module such as the crown buttons force sensor or touch sensor. Thus as one of these modules is actuated the haptic actuator may provide an associated output responsive thereto. For example the haptic actuator may provide feedback in response to the operation of the crown . The haptic actuator may also be used to provide an alert or signal in response to an event or action on the electronic device . For example the haptic actuator may output a tap in response to receipt of a message.

Accordingly alerts may be generated upon receipt of data by the device from an external source text messages emails phone calls warning systems and the like by an application for example to indicate that a user input is requested upon reaching a certain time for example a time at which a calendar entry occurs by an operational state of the electronic device for example a low battery charge an upgrade to the operating system of the device the device temperature reaching a certain point and so on through a user initiated settings an alarm set to occur at a certain time due to geographic factors entering or exiting a certain area proximity as another person with another electronic device is nearby and so on. These and other alert conditions will be appreciated upon reading this document in its entirety.

In certain embodiments the electronic device may include an internal battery . The battery may be used to store and provide power to the various components and modules of the electronic device including the haptic actuator . The battery may be configured to be charged using a wireless charging system although a wired charging system may also be used.

In some embodiments the haptic actuator may be configured to start and stop a weight or actuator mass of the haptic actuator in a relatively short amount of time. For example each of the tap atom the mini tap atom and the micro tap atom may start and stop that is movement of the actuator mass may start and stop between approximately six milliseconds and approximately forty milliseconds. In some instances the tap atom may be configured to start and stop in approximately thirty five milliseconds the mini tap atom may start and stop in approximately twenty milliseconds and the micro tap atom may start and stop in approximate fifteen milliseconds. Due to the quick start up time and end time of each of these atoms a leading buzz and or a trailing buzz e.g. noise and or vibrations caused by the haptic actuator starting and ending movement may be greatly reduced or eliminated.

In certain embodiments different sizes of haptic actuators may be used. For example in some embodiments the haptic actuator weighs between approximately forty grams and sixty grams. In some specific examples the haptic actuator weigh approximately fifty grams although other weights may be used. The fifty gram weight may include the housing cover and all mounting hardware associated with the haptic actuator. In some embodiments the actuator mass may weigh between approximately two grams and approximately three grams. In some specific example the actuator mass may weigh approximately two and a half grams. In other embodiments a lighter or heavier haptic actuator and actuator mass may be used. In certain embodiments the size and dimensions of the haptic actuator and the actuator mass may also vary.

As discussed previously the example haptic waveforms whether atoms or combinations thereof may be defined or described in terms of input to the haptic actuator output from the haptic actuator and or output from the electronic device. For example and as will be described below various voltages magnetic fluxes or currents may be applied to the haptic actuator at specified time intervals defined by the input waveform. Such electrical characteristics may be induced or applied for example by operation of an electromagnetic coil and the resultant flux interacting with a magnet in the actuator mass or with the actuator mass itself. The voltages currents that are applied to the coil cause a series of Lorentz force to be exerted on moveable magnetic structures within or associated with the actuator mass of the haptic actuator. These forces push and pull the actuator mass at strategic intervals to increase the speed and displacement of the actuator mass in a short amount of time. Although specific structures are mentioned the haptic actuator of the present disclosure may have other structures associated therewith.

Regardless of the type of actuator used the haptic actuator may be configured to produce a mechanical movement or vibration that may be transmitted through a case or housing of an electronic device such as for example electronic device . More specifically the haptic actuator may be configured to receive various atoms that when played by the haptic actuator produce a haptic output that may be transmitted to a user and perceived as a stimulus or other type of haptic output. As described herein the atoms and their associated haptic output may be referred to herein as a tap a micro tap and a mini tap. Additional atoms that described above may also be used with embodiments of the present disclosure and include a sine a sine with a boost a sine with a brake and a sine with a boost and a brake.

Each of the input waveforms and their respective output waveforms are configured to start and complete within a set amount of time in order to produce a desired feel. For example an input waveform for the tap may start and complete within between approximately six milliseconds and approximately forty milliseconds. In some embodiments the time frame may be as little as approximately thirty five milliseconds. This time frame provides a sharp single haptic tap much like a tap for gaining a person s attention rather than a buzz that is typically provided in conventional haptic actuators. For example the input and output waveform associated with the tap may be one tenth the duration of the buzz that is output by a conventional haptic actuator. Further the haptic actuator may cause an electronic device to move in accordance with a device waveform such as described above.

In addition to the types of haptic output discussed above the haptic actuator may be configured to receive and play combinations of atoms that represent a haptic language and or repeat various combinations of atoms. The atoms may be stored in a library such as described above. Further the various combinations of atoms may also be stored in library. In certain embodiments the haptic language may not only be comprised of basic building blocks of atoms the atoms may be combined and arranged in a particular sequence. As each atom may represent a number a letter or a word of the haptic language a sequence of atoms may be used to represent additional numbers letters words or even sentences in the haptic language.

For example each of the tap mini tap and micro tap atoms may represent a base building block or a base pattern of the haptic language. As such each of the tap mini tap and micro tap atoms may be sequentially arranged or otherwise combined to create different patterns with each pattern representing a particular word sentence and so on. Further each number word or sentence may be associated with a particular event notification such as described above.

In addition to the above the haptic actuator may also be configured to play a silence waveform. The silence waveform may have a duration of up to one second although other time periods are contemplated. Further the silence waveform as with other input and output waveforms may be played back to back. Thus if longer silence durations are needed multiple silence waveforms may be played in sequence. In certain embodiments the silence waveform may be used to ensure that the oscillations of the actuator mass of the haptic actuator have stopped or substantially stopped prior to outputting another type or iteration of a specific haptic output.

As the haptic actuator is configured to output a haptic language a user of the electronic device may be able to discern between various alert events or notifications that are received based solely on the haptic output provided by the haptic language. Although the haptic language may enable a user to determine the event notifications based on the haptic language additional notifications e.g. text notifications visual notifications and so one may also be provided by the electronic device.

The haptic actuator may be configured to receive a customized haptic language that is specific to or tailored by a developer or a user of the electronic device. In addition an audio and or acoustic output may also be provided as part of or in addition to the haptic language. Addition of the audio output may further enhance the haptic language and or enable further customization of the haptic language.

Referring back to the haptic actuator may be specifically configured to provide haptic output on a wrist of a user. Although a wrist is specifically mentioned the embodiments described herein are not so limited. The haptic actuator may provide haptic output in various orientations locations including locations on a user s body depending on where the electronic device is located and so on. The haptic output provided by the haptic actuator when the haptic actuator plays the various atoms described herein may be up to five times more powerful than a conventional vibration motor that provides a series of haptic output in the form of clicks as is usually provided by conventional vibration motors.

As shown in the haptic actuator may have a body encompassed by a case . In certain embodiments the haptic actuator may have a volume of approximately 568 mm. Although a specific volume is mentioned the haptic actuator may have various sizes and volumes. In certain embodiments the case may extend to form a bracket not shown that connects to a housing of the wearable electronic device . As will be explained below motion of an actuator mass within the case may be transferred to the case and through the bracket to the housing of the wearable electronic device . In this manner the motion of the actuator mass may create the perceived stimulus.

In certain embodiments the motion may be selective or otherwise concentrated in that it affects only a portion of the housing of the wearable electronic device . In another embodiment the motion may broadly affect the housing of the wearable electronic device as a whole. In either event the haptic actuator may produce a tactile output that may be used as an alert or notification such as described herein.

Although the haptic actuator of the present disclosure may be enclosed within a case various sidewalls of the case have been removed in to show the internal components of the example haptic actuator . For example and as shown in the haptic actuator includes an actuator mass comprising a frame a central magnet array and a coil disposed around the central magnet array .

The coil of the haptic actuator may be energized by transmitting a current e.g. from the battery along a length of a wire that forms the coil . A direction of the current along the wire of the coil determines a direction of an electromotive force that emanates from the coil . In turn the direction of the electromotive force determines a direction of movement of the actuator mass .

For example when the coil is energized the coil generates an electromotive force. The opposing polarities of the magnets in the magnet array generate a radial electromotive force that interacts with the electromotive force of the coil . The Lorentz force resulting from the interaction of the electromotive forces causes the actuator mass to move along the shaft in a first direction. Reversing current flow through the coil reverses the Lorentz force. As a result the electromotive force or force on the central magnet array is also reversed and the actuator mass may move in a second direction. Thus actuator mass may move in both directions along the shaft depending on the direction of current flow through the coil.

Continuing with the example above when the coil is energized the central magnet array and the actuator mass moves along a shaft of the haptic actuator depending on the polarity of the electromotive force. For example if a direction of the current along the wire of the coil is in a first direction the actuator mass will move in a first direction e.g. toward a proximal end of the haptic actuator . Likewise if the direction of the current along the wire of the coil is in a second direction e.g. opposite the first direction the actuator mass will move in a second direction that is opposite from the first direction e.g. toward a distal end of the haptic actuator .

Further if the current through the coil is sufficiently high the actuator mass will move rapidly and reach a peak velocity and momentum and a peak displacement in a short amount of time. In some embodiments the peak momentum is approximately 2000 gram millimeters per second although other momentums and velocities may be reached and or used. For example when an amount of current represented by an input waveform or an atom is applied to the haptic actuator haptic output may be felt between approximately three milliseconds and approximately twenty milliseconds.

In certain embodiments the peak velocity or momentum for the tap atom may be defined as the largest velocity or momentum that can be achieved without any internal impact of the actuator mass with one or more sidewalls of the haptic actuator and while maintaining the specified power consumption requirements e.g. one watt of power consumed in a given time period . Further the peak velocity of the actuator mass may be calculated by a numerical integration of a measured force output e.g. Newtons divided by 0.05 kg and multiplied by 1000 for an output in mm s.

Although peak velocity and moment is defined by the above the peak velocity momentum used herein may also be described as the highest velocity momentum that is reached in order to provide haptic output associated with a tap a mini tap and a micro tap and or the sine sine with a boost sine with a brake and sine with a boost and a brake such as set forth above. In addition any of the parameters discussed herein e.g. momentum velocity intensity and so on may also be defined for various custom waveforms and other such sequences of atoms.

In some embodiments the movement of the actuator mass or the haptic actuator may be expressed as momentum. More specifically some embodiments of the present disclosure may have a minimum momentum of 1500 grams per millimeter per second. In some embodiments a fifty gram haptic actuator may have a velocity of approximately forty millimeters per second and accordingly have a momentum of approximately 2000 grams per meter per second. Likewise a two and a half gram actuator mass may have a velocity of approximately eight hundred millimeters per second and also have a momentum of approximately 2000 grams per millimeter per second.

In some embodiments after a target velocity momentum or target displacement of the actuator mass has been reached a directional current opposite the initial directional current is applied to the coil . That is if the direction of the applied current is in a first direction to accelerate the actuator mass the second current applied to the coil may be in the opposite direction. The second current causes the generated electromotive force to exert a force in a direction opposite the initial motion of the actuator mass . As a result the electromotive force slows down or acts as a brake to the actuator mass . As a result of the brake the actuator mass is returned to its nominal position.

Use of currents in this way may be used to control or otherwise limit oscillation of the actuator mass especially when the actuator mass is at or near resonance frequency. In other embodiments use of the currents may be used to maintain a resonance frequency of the actuator mass .

In addition to the above alternating the direction of the current and thereby alternating the electromotive force that is applied to the actuator mass enables the coil to both pull and push the actuator mass . As a result motive force may be applied in two opposing directions through selective application of the electromotive force of the coil . This may permit fine control over motion and or velocity momentum of the actuator mass in multiple directions.

For example a first current value may be applied to the coil which causes a first electromotive force e.g. a push to be exerted on the actuator mass . As a result the actuator mass moves from its nominal position such as for example a position in which the actuator mass is at or near a center of the case to a second position in which the actuator mass has moved toward a distal end of the case . Once the actuator mass has reached the second position or after a specified amount of time has elapsed a second voltage or current may be applied to the coil which causes a second electromotive force e.g. a pull to be exerted on the actuator mass . In some embodiments the second electromotive force has a polarity that is opposite from the first electromotive force thereby causing the pull on the actuator mass . As a result the actuator mass begins to travel in a second direction that is opposite from the first direction such as for example toward the proximal end of the case .

However because the actuator mass has a longer distance to travel due to the travel associated with the first displacement the velocity and momentum of the actuator mass may increase. This pushing and pulling action may continue until a desired or peak displacement and or a desired or peak velocity and or momentum of the actuator mass is reached. For example a third electromotive force may be exerted on the actuator mass once the desired displacement in the second direction has been met. The third electromotive force may be similar to the first electromotive force e.g. a push and may cause the actuator mass to reach a peak velocity momentum and or displacement.

Once the desired displacement and or desired velocity and or momentum has been reached a directional current e.g. a current that exerts an electromotive opposite the displacement of the haptic actuator may be applied to slow the actuator mass . For example if the actuator mass is traveling in a direction caused by a pull a voltage or electrical input that causes a push is applied to the coil . The push effectively acts as a brake to slow the velocity momentum and or displacement of the actuator mass . In some embodiments just as multiple pushes and pulls may be used to increase the velocity momentum or displacement of the actuator mass multiple pushes and pulls may be used to slow the velocity or reduce the displacement or momentum of the actuator mass .

In certain embodiments the shaft the central magnet array and the frame of the haptic actuator may be made from non ferritic material such as for example tungsten titanium stainless steel and the like. Using these materials helps prevent the central magnet array from being attracted to the shaft which could increase friction between magnet array and the shaft thereby increasing the force necessary to move the actuator mass .

As shown in the haptic actuator may also include one or more springs . The one or more springs may encircle each end of the shaft . The springs may act to dampen motion of the actuator mass along the shaft . Additionally the one or more springs may prevent the actuator mass from hitting or crashing into one or more sidewalls of the case . The springs may also help return the actuator mass its nominal position in which the actuator mass is still e.g. not moving or substantially still or to a state in which the actuator mass is at or near the center of the case . In yet other embodiments the one or more springs may cooperate with the electromotive force of the coil to help return the actuator mass to its resting or nominal position.

In other embodiments the one or more springs may be used to store energy that may be later used to provide haptic output. For example since it may be desirable to deliver a sudden impulse of kinetic energy to a wearer or user of the electronic device while still staying within a fixed power budget e.g. using between approximately 0.5 and 1.0 watt of power additional energy may be stored in the one or more springs . In such embodiments the actuator mass may be slowly displaced using for example a small amount of current toward either a proximal end or a distal end of the haptic actuator .

As the actuator mass moves one of the one or more springs may compress. Once the actuator mass has been displaced a threshold distance or has been held or otherwise moved for a threshold amount of time the actuator mass may be released or another current e.g. a current having a direction opposite the current that was applied to the haptic actuator to cause the actuator mass to be displaced toward the spring is applied to the haptic actuator .

Once released the compressed spring causes the actuator mass to accelerate or otherwise gain momentum and be displaced more quickly than if the actuator mass would have started in its nominal position. It should be noted that while the actuator mass is being initially displaced the displacement of the actuator mass may not cause any perceived haptic output. Further the velocity and or momentum of the actuator mass may remain at nearly zero until the second current is applied.

The haptic actuator may also include a flex . The flex may extend through the case to provide electrical connections for components within the case . Some embodiments may omit the flex and may instead provide electrical contacts on the exterior of the case or may use a rigid connector in place of the flex .

Method begins when instructions for an atom or sequence of atoms is received . In certain embodiments the atom that is received may be a tap atom a mini tap atom a micro tap atom a sine atom a sine with a boost atom a sine with a brake atom a sine with a boost and a brake atom a silence atom a custom atom or any combination thereof.

Each atom combination of atoms and or sequence of atoms may be associated with a particular alert event or other such notification. Accordingly process may be based at least in park on what type of alert event was received by e.g. from another device and or transmitted by the electronic device. For example if a phone call was received a first sequence of atoms may be selected and or generated and subsequently provided to a haptic actuator. If an electronic message was received a second sequence of atoms may be selected and or generated and subsequently provided to the haptic actuator.

In some embodiments multiple sequences of atoms that make up different entries in the haptic language may also be output in sequence. For example if a first alert event and second alert event were received simultaneously or substantially simultaneously a first sequence of atoms may be received and a second sequence of atoms may be sequenced with the first sequence of atoms.

Once the atom or pattern of atoms is received flow proceeds to operation and the drive period of a first atom is played. In some embodiments the drive period is provided by a synthesizer engine to a haptic actuator and is used to excite the actuator mass of the haptic actuator such as described above. More specifically the drive period of the atom may cause various voltage values to be applied to the haptic actuator which causes an electromotive force to move an actuator mass in first direction and or a second direction.

As discussed above the different voltage values may be applied at various times in the drive period. Further the voltage values may cause a displacement of the actuator mass to increase or decrease a velocity or momentum of the actuator mass to increase or decrease and so on. As also discussed above the drive period may cause various forces to be applied to the actuator mass such that the haptic actuator may provide haptic output.

Flow then proceeds to operation in which the brake period of the first atom is executed. In certain embodiments the brake period is used to quickly slow movement of the actuator mass of the haptic actuator. The brake period may be designed to cause different voltage values to be applied to the haptic actuator at various time periods such that electromotive forces may be exerted on the actuator mass to slow velocity momentum and or displacement of the actuator mass until the actuator mass has stopped moving or substantially stopped moving. Once the actuator mass has stopped moving the actuator mass may be in its nominal position.

In some embodiments if additional atoms are provided or otherwise presented to a haptic actuator the haptic actuator will continue to oscillate and or provide haptic output in accordance with the instructions represented by the additional atoms. Thus various atoms may be sequenced together or otherwise combined such as described above.

Method begins when an alert event is received identified or triggered by an electronic device. In some embodiments the alert event may include 1 incoming and or outgoing text based communications such as for example an email a text message and so on 2 incoming and or outgoing voice image and or video communications 3 calendaring and or appointment notifications 4 device alert notifications such as for example a low battery notification device or application update notifications device pairing notifications and so on 5 location and or directional based notifications 6 application based notifications such as for example push notifications alerts and so on from various applications that are executing on the electronic device or on a companion device 7 time based notifications such as alarms time notifications and so on and 8 health related notifications. The various alert events may also include user interactions with the electronic device and or the companion device. For example if the electronic device includes an input mechanism such as a crown or button the alert event may be associated with an actuation of the crown or button.

Once the alert event has been received or identified a synthesizer engine or processor of the electronic device may identify one or more atoms that are to be generated recreated and or provided to a haptic actuator such that the atoms may be played back based on the type of alert event received. In some embodiments various alert events may have one or more atoms that are associated with it. That is a first type of alert event may be associated with a first atom or sequence of atoms and a second type of alert event may be associated with a second atom or sequence of atoms.

In addition each alert event may be associated with a particular type of audio output and or a particular effector. Thus the synthesizer engine or processor may also be configured to not only determine which atoms or sequence of atoms to generate and or provide to a haptic actuator but may also be configured to determine whether audio is to be output as well as whether the atoms or sequence of atoms are to be bound using one or more effectors such as described above.

For example if the alert event that is received is an email notification event the synthesizer engine or processor may be configured to determine that a first sequence of atoms is to be provided to a haptic actuator. However if the alert event is a telephone call the synthesizer engine or processor may be configured to determine that a second sequence of atoms is to be provided to a haptic actuator. In addition the processor or synthesizer engine may also determine that the first and or the second sequence of atoms may also have audio output and may be bound by a particular effector.

In addition to determining the type of atoms that are to be provided to the haptic actuator the processor or synthesizer engine may be configured to determine an amount of time each atom is to be played by a haptic actuator. In some embodiments this time period corresponds to Tspecified such as described above.

In still yet other embodiments the synthesizer engine or the processor may also be configured to receive instructions and based on those instructions determine a type of atom to provide to the haptic actuator. For example when an alert event is received or identified the processor or the synthesizer engine identifies the type of atom or atoms that are associated with the alert event as well as the desired length of playback for each atom e.g. Tspecified an intensity level during playback and or a time at which the atom is to be played. The intensity level may be a percentage of a default intensity level. The default intensity level may be based on a maximum amplitude for each atom a default amplitude for each atom or a default power output such as for example a given percentage or a fraction of one watt. With lower intensity less power is used to generate the haptic output so in one embodiment the intensity level may represent or correspond to a power usage by the device. Accordingly intensity may include or correspond to but is not limited to an amplitude and or power usage. Thus when an alert event is received or identified the synthesizer engine may be configured to determine and or generate input waveforms using the above parameters and provide the generated input waveforms or associated instructions to the haptic actuator such as described below.

Flow then proceeds to operation in which the synthesizer engine generates the input waveforms based on the atom type desired playback length for each atom percentage power for each atom time at which to initiate playback of each atom and any effectors and provides the input waveforms to a haptic actuator of the electronic device. In some embodiments the synthesizer engine may be configured to receive instructions from a processor or other module in the electronic device that includes the atoms and effectors that are needed based on the received or identified alert event. Thus the synthesizer engine need not determine what atoms are to be played back as the atoms are identified by a separate component of the electronic device .

Regardless when generating the input waveforms the synthesizer engine may be configured to generate the input waveforms that are subsequently provided to a haptic actuator. As previously discussed the synthesizer engine may generate input waveforms for a single atom a sequence of atoms an effector audio output or instructions for audio output and any combinations thereof. In other embodiments the synthesizer engine may be configured to generate one or more phrases or words of the haptic language such as described above.

The synthesizer engine may also be configured to determine and or include the time frame allotted for each input waveform as the input waveforms are generated. That is the synthesizer engine may be configured to determine the active time period of each atom waveform Tactive for the actuator based on the desired time period Tspecified . As discussed above the Tactive consists of N number of complete cycles that the haptic actuator may output in the time frame specified by Tspecified. For example although the value for Tspecified may be two seconds the value for Tactive may be 1.8 seconds as the actuator is not able to play another complete cycle in 0.2 seconds which represents the difference between Tspecified and Tactive .

Once the synthesizer engine has generated the input waveforms flow proceeds to operation and the input waveforms are provided to a haptic actuator of the electronic device. Once received the haptic actuator then plays the input waveforms which subsequently provides the haptic output based on the received input waveforms. The synthesizer engine or processor may also provide instructions to a speaker or other output device to output a corresponding audio output.

The various types of electronic devices disclosed herein may be configured to use one or more Application Programming Interfaces APIs . An API is an interface implemented by a program code component or hardware component hereinafter API implementation component that allows a different program code component or a hardware component hereinafter API calling component to access and use one or more functions e.g. a haptic alert function methods procedures data structures classes and or other services provided by the API implementation component. An API can define one or more parameters that are passed between the API calling component and the API implementation component.

An API allows a developer of an API calling component which may be a third party developer to leverage specified features provided by an API implementation component. There may be one API calling component or multiple API calling components. An API can be a source code interface that a computer system or program library provides in order to support requests for services from an application. An operating system OS can have multiple APIs to allow applications running on the OS to call one or more of those APIs and a service such as a program library can have multiple APIs to allow an application that uses the service to call one or more of those APIs. An API can be specified in terms of a programming language that can be interpreted or compiled when an application is built.

For example in some embodiments the API may enable a developer or other user to specify which atoms in a library of atoms are to be played sequenced or otherwise provided to a haptic actuator in response to an alert event. That is a developer may use the API to determine generate or create atoms sequences of atoms effectors and or audio output that is to be provided when an alert event is received or triggered.

For example in some embodiments the synthesizer engine or the processor may also be configured to receive instructions from the API or a function call facilitated by the API and based on those instructions determine a type of atom or atoms to provide to the haptic actuator. In some embodiments the developer may specify in a function call or otherwise create a type of atom that is to be provided to the haptic actuator and an alert event that is to be associated with the type of atom. In addition the developer may specify the desired length of playback for each atom e.g. Tspecified an intensity level during playback and or a time at which the atom is to be played. The intensity level may be a percentage or fraction of a default intensity level. The default intensity level may be based on a maximum amplitude for each atom or a percentage or fraction of a default amplitude of the atom which also may be represented as a percentage or fraction of a default power such as for example a given percentage of one watt. With lower intensity less power is used to generate the haptic output so in one embodiment the intensity level may represent or correspond to a power usage by the device.

The API may also enable a developer to generate or create new audio waveforms and new words or phrases of the haptic language. For example a developer may be able to sequence various atoms together in order to modify change or update haptic output that is provided with a particular alert event. Thus a developer or user may have a unique alert for each alert event based on his or her preferences. In addition to the above the developer through the API may be able to specify which effectors if any are used to bind the signals of the atoms or sequence of atoms created by the developer.

In some embodiments the API implementation component may provide more than one API each providing a different view of or with different aspects that access different aspects of the functionality implemented by the API implementation component. For example one API of an API implementation component can provide a first set of functions and can be exposed to third party developers and another API of the API implementation component can be hidden not exposed and provide a subset of the first set of functions and also provide another set of functions such as testing or debugging functions which are not in the first set of functions.

In other embodiments the API implementation component may call one or more other components via an underlying API and thus be both an API calling component and an API implementation component.

An API defines the language and parameters that the API calling components may use when accessing and using specified features of the API implementation component. For example an API calling component accesses the specified features of the API implementation component through one or more API calls or invocations embodied for example by function or method calls exposed by the API and passes data and control information using parameters via the API calls or invocations. The API implementation component may return a value through the API in response to an API call from an API calling component. While the API defines the syntax and result of an API call e.g. how to invoke the API call and what the API call does the API may not reveal how the API call accomplishes the function specified by the API call. Various API calls are transferred via the one or more application programming interfaces between the calling API calling component and an API implementation component.

Transferring the API calls may include issuing initiating invoking calling receiving returning or responding to the function calls or messages in other words transferring can describe actions by either of the API calling component or the API implementation component. The function calls or other invocations of the API may send or receive one or more parameters through a parameter list or other structure. A parameter can be a constant key data structure object object class variable data type pointer array list or a pointer to a function or method or another way to reference a data or other item to be passed via the API.

Furthermore data types or classes may be provided by the API and implemented by the API implementation component. Thus the API calling component may declare variables use pointers to use or instantiate constant values of such types or classes by using definitions provided in the API.

Generally an API can be used to access a service or data provided by the API implementation component or to initiate performance of an operation or computation provided by the API implementation component. By way of example the API implementation component and the API calling component may each be any one of an operating system a library a device driver an API an application program or other module it should be understood that the API implementation component and the API calling component may be the same or different type of module from each other . API implementation components may in some cases be embodied at least in part in firmware microcode or other hardware logic. In some embodiments an API may allow a client program to use the services provided by a Software Development Kit SDK library. In other embodiments an application or other client program may use an API provided by an Application Framework. In these embodiments the application or client program may incorporate calls to functions or methods provided by the SDK and provided by the API or use data types or Objects defined in the SDK and provided by the API.

An Application Framework may in these embodiments provide a main event loop for a program that responds to various events defined by the Framework. The API allows the application to specify the events and the responses to the events using the Application Framework. In some implementations an API call can report to an application the capabilities or state of a hardware device including those related to aspects such as input capabilities and state output capabilities and state processing capability power state storage capacity and state communications capability etc. and the API may be implemented in part by firmware microcode or other low level logic that executes in part on the hardware component.

The API calling component may be a local component i.e. on the same data processing system as the API implementation component or a remote component i.e. on a different data processing system from the API implementation component that communicates with the API implementation component through the API over a network. It should be understood that an API implementation component may also act as an API calling component i.e. it may make API calls to an API exposed by a different API implementation component and an API calling component may also act as an API implementation component by implementing an API that is exposed to a different API calling component.

The API may allow multiple API calling components written in different programming languages to communicate with the API implementation component thus the API may include features for translating calls and returns between the API implementation component and the API calling component however the API may be implemented in terms of a specific programming language. An API calling component can in one embodiment call APIs from different providers such as a set of APIs from an operating system provider and another set of APIs from a plug in provider and another set of APIs from another provider e.g. the provider of a software library or creator of the another set of APIs.

It will be appreciated that the API implementation component may include additional functions methods classes data structures and or other features that are not specified through the API and are not available to the API calling component . It should be understood that the API calling component may be on the same system as the API implementation component or may be located remotely and accesses the API implementation component using the API over a network. While illustrates a single API calling component interacting with the API it should be understood that other API calling components which may be written in different languages or the same language than the API calling component may use the API .

The API implementation component the API and the API calling component may be stored in a machine readable medium which includes any mechanism for storing information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer or other data processing system . For example a machine readable medium includes magnetic disks optical disks random access memory read only memory flash memory devices and so on.

Note that the Service has two APIs one of which Service API receives calls from and returns values to Application and the other Service API receives calls from and returns values to Application . Service which can be for example a software library makes calls to and receives returned values from OS API and Service which can be for example a software library makes calls to and receives returned values from both OS API and OS API . Application makes calls to and receives returned values from OS API either directly or through the operating system .

In various implementations embodiments described herein may be accessed by or implemented as an API. For example the host may provide one or more applications access to one or more APIs to directly set or change a haptic output for example by accessing a library of input atoms in order to generate a particular or desired haptic output.

However in some cases a host may not allow one or more applications to directly control the haptic actuator in such a way. In such cases the host may retain all actual control over the haptic actuator but may provide one or more applications access to one or more APIs that enable the applications to request that the host perform one or more such operations. In this way applications may still have access to one or more APIs for performing such functions but the host may still retain control as to whether or not such operations are actually performed.

Embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to an electronic device that is configured to provide haptic output. In some embodiments the electronic device includes a processing unit a memory and a haptic actuator. When an input waveform is applied to the haptic actuator the haptic actuator moves in response to the plurality of input waveforms that are applied as input. Further each input waveform is operative to cause the haptic actuator to move differently than the other input waveforms when applied as input. In addition to the above the processing unit is operative to apply different combinations of the plurality of input waveforms to the haptic actuator for different alert conditions. In some embodiments at least one set of the different sets of the plurality of input waveforms comprises two or more input waveforms.

Also disclosed is an electronic device having one or more processing units a memory and a haptic actuator. The memory stores instructions for generating a plurality of input waveforms to drive the haptic actuator. Further the haptic actuator is operative to move in response to the plurality of input waveforms applied as input to the haptic actuator. For example each input waveform is operative to cause the haptic actuator to move with a displacement profile that is different than those of the other input waveforms. In addition the processing unit is operative to select a first combination of input waveforms from the plurality of input waveforms in response to a first alert condition. The processing unit is also operative to select a second combination of input waveforms from the plurality of input waveforms in response to a second alert condition. In embodiments the first combination of input waveforms and the second combination of input waveforms are selected from the memory by the processing unit. Further the second combination of input waveforms is different than the first combination of input waveforms.

A method for generating a haptic output is also described. According to this method a first alert condition is identified. In response to identifying the first alert condition first and second input waveforms from a plurality of input waveforms stored in representative form in a non transitory medium are identified. The method also enables application of the selected first and second input waveforms as an electrical input to a haptic actuator. As a result the haptic actuator moves to produce a first haptic output.

Other embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to a computer readable medium that stores a first atom corresponding to a first waveform having a first set of characteristics a second atom corresponding to a second waveform having a second set of characteristics and a third atom corresponding to a third waveform having a third set of characteristics. In some embodiments each of the first second and third atoms when applied as an input to an actuator cause the actuator to move. Further the first second and third waveforms are operable to be combined to vary the input to the haptic actuator.

An electronic device is also described herein. The electronic device includes among other components a haptic actuator having an actuator mass and at least one electromotive component. In some embodiments the at least one electromotive component causes a momentum of the actuator mass to increase from approximately zero momentum to a peak intensity in an output momentum waveform in three or fewer zero crossings.

Also disclosed in an electronic device comprising one or more processing units a memory and a haptic actuator having an actuator mass and at least one electromotive component. In some embodiments the haptic actuator is configured to receive an input voltage waveform. The input voltage waveform causes the electromotive component to move the actuator mass in accordance with an output velocity waveform. Further the input voltage waveform causes a velocity of the actuator mass of the haptic actuator to change from approximately zero to a peak intensity in the output velocity waveform within two periods of a peak input voltage of the input voltage waveform.

In some embodiments an electronic device may include one or more processing units a memory and a haptic actuator. The memory is operative to store instructions for moving an actuator mass of the haptic actuator. In some embodiments the instructions cause the actuator mass of the haptic actuator to move in accordance with an output displacement waveform and an output momentum waveform in response to the haptic actuator receiving an input voltage waveform. The output displacement waveform and the output momentum waveform have a peak displacement intensity or amplitude and a peak momentum intensity or amplitude respectively. Further the peak displacement intensity or amplitude and the peak momentum intensity or amplitude are reached in three or fewer zero crossings from a time when the input voltage waveform is first applied to the haptic actuator.

Additional embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to a method for providing haptic output. The method includes initiating movement of an actuator mass of a haptic actuator by applying an input voltage waveform to the haptic actuator. The input voltage waveform is adapted to cause the actuator mass to move in accordance with an output momentum waveform. In addition the input voltage waveform causes a momentum of the actuator mass of the haptic actuator to change from approximately zero momentum to a peak intensity or a peak amplitude in the output momentum waveform such that a change in the momentum from approximately zero momentum to the peak intensity or the peak amplitude occurs in three or fewer zero crossings.

Additional embodiments are directed to an electronic device having one or more processing units a memory and a haptic actuator having an actuator mass and at least one electromotive component. The haptic actuator is adapted to receive an input voltage waveform that causes the at least one electromotive component to 1 increase a momentum of the actuator mass from a first momentum of approximately zero to peak momentum intensity in an output momentum waveform during a first time period and 2 decrease the momentum of the actuator mass from the peak momentum intensity to a second momentum intensity in the output momentum waveform in a second time period. In some embodiments a total time of the first time period and the second time period is between approximately six milliseconds and approximately forty milliseconds.

An electronic device comprising one or more processing units a memory and a haptic actuator having an actuator mass is also disclosed. In such embodiments the haptic actuator is adapted to receive an input voltage waveform that causes an increase in a momentum of the actuator mass from a first momentum of approximately zero to peak intensity in an output momentum waveform and a decrease in the momentum of the actuator mass from the peak intensity to a second intensity in the output momentum waveform. In some embodiments the increase in the momentum and the decrease in the momentum occur between two and a half and three cycles.

A method of providing haptic output is also disclosed. In some embodiments this method comprises applying an input voltage waveform to a haptic actuator comprising an actuator mass to causes a momentum of the actuator mass to increase from substantially zero to a peak intensity. In addition the increase in momentum from substantially zero to the peak intensity occurs during a first time period of between approximately three milliseconds and approximately twenty milliseconds. Further the first time period begins when the input voltage is initially applied to the haptic actuator.

A method of moving an actuator mass of a haptic actuator is also disclosed. In such embodiments an input atom is applied to the haptic actuator. The input atom is configured to cause the actuator mass of the haptic actuator to move in accordance with the atom and also causes a momentum of the actuator mass to increase from a first momentum of substantially zero in an output momentum waveform to a peak intensity of in an output momentum waveform of approximately 1500 gram millimeters per second or higher between a first time period between approximately three milliseconds and approximately twenty milliseconds.

In yet other embodiments an electronic device is disclosed. The electronic device includes one or more processing units a memory and a haptic actuator. The one or more processing units are adapted to receive or identify an alert event or notification and determine based on the alert event or notification one or more types of haptic inputs to apply to the haptic actuator. Once this determination is made the one or more processing units generate each type of haptic input based on one or more parameters. These parameters may include a length of playback an intensity level during playback and a time period at which each haptic input is to be played by the haptic actuator.

In another embodiment an electronic device having one or more processing units a memory and a haptic actuator may be configured to generate an input waveform based on a determined state of the electronic device. In such embodiments the input waveform is adapted to cause a haptic actuator to move in accordance with an output waveform associated with the input waveform. Further the input waveform may include information corresponding to a length of playback an intensity level during playback and a time period at which each haptic input is to be played by the haptic actuator.

A method for causing haptic output is also disclosed. According to this method an alert event is received. Once the alert event is received a determination is made as to a type of input atom that is to be applied to a haptic actuator. A first type of haptic input is then generated. The first type of haptic input includes information regarding a length of playback an intensity level during playback and a time period at which each haptic input is to be played by the haptic actuator.

Also disclosed is an electronic device comprising one or more processing units a haptic actuator and a memory coupled to the one or more processing units. The memory stores instructions which when executed by the one or more processing units cause the one or more processing units to perform operations to generate an application programming interface API that allows an API calling component to determine based on an alert event or notification one or more types of haptic input to apply to the haptic actuator. In some embodiments each haptic input is defined based on one or more parameters including a length of playback an intensity level during playback and a time period at which each haptic input is to be played by the haptic actuator.

A data processing system is also disclosed. In some embodiments the data processing system includes one or more processing units to execute instructions a memory coupled with the processor to store instructions which when executed by the one or more processing units cause the one or more processing units to perform operations to generate an application programming interface API implementing component that implements an API that exposes one or more functions to an API calling component. In such embodiments the API includes a haptic alert function that defines one or more types of haptic inputs to apply to the haptic actuator based on an alert event or notification. Further each haptic input of the one or more types of haptic inputs is defined based on one or more parameters including a length of playback an intensity level during playback and a time period at which each haptic input is to be played by the haptic actuator.

The foregoing description for purposes of explanation used specific nomenclature to provide a thorough understanding of the described embodiments. However it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that the specific details are not required in order to practice the described embodiments. Thus the foregoing descriptions of the specific embodiments described herein are presented for purposes of illustration and description. They are not target to be exhaustive or to limit the embodiments to the precise forms disclosed. It will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings.

Further regardless of whether the features shown and described herein are shown and described in combination or separately the various features including structural features and methodological features are intended to be selectively included or omitted to produce an embodiment with a particular set of features. Having been provided with the description and illustration of the present application one skilled in the art may envision variations modifications and alternative embodiments falling within the spirit of the broader aspects of the embodiments described herein that do not depart from the broader scope of the claimed embodiments.

Embodiments of the present disclosure are described above with reference to block diagrams and operational illustrations of methods and the like. The operations described may occur out of the order as shown in any of the figures. Additionally one or more operations may be removed or executed substantially concurrently. For example two blocks shown in succession may be executed substantially concurrently. Additionally the blocks may be executed in the reverse order. In addition one or more procedures or enhancements that are disclosed with respect to one input or output waveform may be provided to another input or output waveform such as described.

