---

title: Load balancing in a central conferencing routing server
abstract: Aspects of the present disclosure involve systems, methods, computer program products, and the like, for collaboration conferencing with multiple participants over a communications network, and more specifically for a conferencing routing service for managing and routing collaboration participants. In one embodiment, the conferencing routing service may maintain a database of information or preferences associated with the conference requester and attempt to select a conference bridge based on the requester's information. Further, the conferencing routing service may receive performance information from a plurality of conference bridges that are able to conduct the collaboration conference and select a conference bridge in response to the performance information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09635071&OS=09635071&RS=09635071
owner: Level 3 Communications, LLC
number: 09635071
owner_city: Broomfield
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160613
---
This application is a continuation of and claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Non Provisional application Ser. No. 14 887 165 titled LOAD BALANCING IN A CENTRAL CONFERENCING ROUTING SERVER filed on Oct. 19 2015 and is hereby incorporated by reference herein. Application Ser. No. 14 887 165 is a continuation of and claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Non Provisional application Ser. No. 13 708 678 titled LOAD BALANCING IN A CENTRAL CONFERENCING ROUTING SERVER filed on Dec. 7 2012 and is hereby incorporated by reference herein now U.S. Pat. No. 9 167 011 issued Oct. 20 2015 . Application Ser. No. 13 708 678 claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to provisional patent application No. 61 584 115 titled CENTRAL CONFERENCING ROUTING SERVICE and provisional patent application No. 61 584 122 titled CENTRAL CONFERENCING ROUTING SERVICE both filed on Jan. 6 2012 and both of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein. Application Ser. No. 13 708 678 claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 578 794 entitled SIP BASED VOIP COLLABORATION U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 578 798 entitled SIP BASED VOIP COLLABORATION U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 578 803 entitled SIP BASED VOIP COLLABORATION U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 578 807 entitled SIP BASED VOIP COLLABORATION and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 578 810 entitled SIP BASED VOIP COLLABORATION all filed on Dec. 21 2011 and each of which is incorporated by reference in their entirety herein. In addition this application is related to co owned U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 13 708 636 titled CENTRAL CONFERENCE ROUTING SERVER co owned U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 13 708 659 titled METHOD FOR ROUTING IN A CENTRAL CONFERENCE ROUTING SERVER and co owned U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 13 708 689 titled DISASTER RECOVERY WITH A CENTRAL CONFERENCING ROUTING SERVER each of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein.

Aspects of the present disclosure generally relate to systems and methods that provide for collaboration conferencing with multiple participants using devices connected to a telecommunication network including a VoIP network and more specifically for a conferencing routing service for managing and routing collaboration participants.

Telecommunication networks provide for the transmission of information across some distance through terrestrial wireless or satellite communication networks. Such communications may involve voice data or multimedia information among others. In addition telecommunication networks often offer features and or services to the customers of the network that provide flexible and varied ways in which the communications are transmitted over the network. For example some telecommunication networks provide a conferencing feature that allows several users of the network to communicate at once rather than a simple person to person communication. The number of participants to a conference communication may range from several users to several thousand users communicating on the same telephonic video and or data call.

Typically conferencing communications require participants to the conference to place a telephonic call to a dedicated conferencing number. Some networks also require the participants enter a conference call code into the keypad of a telephonic device. The conferencing number and code are then utilized by the telecommunications network to connect that participant to a conference bridge device. In general a conference bridge is a telecommunications device that hosts the participants of a conferencing communication such that the participants can participate in a conference call. Thus the network typically receives the dialed number and conference code from each participant and connects the participant to the conference bridge. Once connected to the conference bridge the participant may take part in the conference. To ensure that each of the participants of the conference may take part in the communication each participant must connect to the same conference bridge. However the routing of the participant to the conference bridge typically occurs without consideration of the routing of the other participants to the conference bridge by the network. Rather each request from each participant may be routed to a dedicated conference bridge on an individual basis.

It is with these and other issues in mind among others that various aspects of the present disclosure were conceived and developed.

One implementation of the present disclosure may take the form of a method for routing one or more collaboration conference access requests in a telecommunications network. The method may include the operations of receiving a collaboration conference access request from a requester s telephonic device associating an identification number with the collaboration conference access request the identification number associated with a customer of a telecommunications network and requesting operational information of at least one conference bridge of a plurality of conference bridges connected to a telecommunications network the operational information comprising at least the available capacity for the at least one conference bridge. The method may also include the operations of selecting a hosting conference bridge from the plurality of conference bridges associated with the telecommunications network and configured to host a collaboration conference the selection occurring at least in response to the operational information of the plurality of conference bridges and transmitting one or more routing messages to the telecommunications network wherein the one or more routing messages include an indication of the selected conference bridge.

Another implementation of the present disclosure may take the form of a system for selecting a conference bridge associated with a network for hosting a collaboration conference event. The system comprises a network interface unit configured to receive a communication from a user of a communications network to establish a collaboration conference on the network a processing device in communication with the network interface unit and a computer readable medium connected to the processing device configured to store information and instructions. When executed by the processing device the instructions perform the operations of associating an identification number with the collaboration conference communication from the user and transmitting one or more requests for performance information from one or more conference bridges of a plurality of conference bridges associated with the network the operational information comprising at least the available capacity for the one or more conference bridges. The instructions also perform calculating a percentage of available capacity for the one or more conference bridges and selecting one of the one or more conference bridges associated with the network for hosting the conference event based at least on the calculated percentage of available capacity.

Aspects of the present disclosure involve systems methods computer program products and the like for collaboration conferencing with multiple participants over a communications network and more specifically for a conferencing routing server for managing and routing collaboration participants. In one example a central conferencing routing server CCRS may be implemented in the communications network to receive a request to join a collaboration conference from one or more of the participants and route the participants to a shared communication bridge that conducts the conference. Additionally the CCRS may receive and maintain information about the communications network to intelligently route the collaboration conference to an appropriate bridge based on any number of criteria. For example the CCRS may communicate with one or more conference bridges associated with the communications network and determine which conference bridge will host a collaboration conference request from a collaboration participant.

The CCRS may also determine which conference bridge will host a collaboration conference request based on other information. For example the CCRS may maintain a database of information or preferences associated with the conference requester and attempt to select a conference bridge based on the requester s information. Such information may include but is not limited to a regional preference the size of the collaboration request and certain collaboration features of the conference collaboration. In another example the CCRS may receive performance information from a plurality of conference bridges that are able to conduct the collaboration conference and select a conference bridge in response to the performance information. For example a particular bridge may provide certain additional features such as high definition audio and the selection of the conference bridge may be based on the desire for the additional feature or features. Also the CCRS may be configured to respond to a failure in one of the conference bridges to allow for repair to the network and or account for split conferences that may occur due to the bridge failure. In general the CCRS may provide configurability in routing a collaboration conference to a conference bridge based on any number of criteria and information about the requester and the communications network on which the conference occurs.

The VoIP network includes numerous components such as but not limited to gateways routers and registrars which enable communication across the VoIP network but are not shown or described in detail here because those skilled in the art will readily understand these components. More relevant to this description is the interaction and communication between the VoIP network and other entities such as the one or more customer home or business local area networks LANs where a participant in a conference will connect with the system for the conference.

Customer network can include communication devices such as but not limited to a personal computer or a telephone connected to a router firewall . Although shown in as telephonic devices the communication devices may include any type of communication device that receives a multimedia signal such as an audio video or web based signal and presents that signal for use by a user of the communication device. The communication and networking components of the customer network enable a user at the customer network to communicate via the VoIP network to other communication devices such as another customer network and or an analog telephone . Components of the customer network are typically home or business based but they can be relocated and may be designed for easy portability. For example the communication device may be wireless e.g. cellular telephone or portable laptop computer.

The customer network typically connects to the VoIP network via a border network such as one provided by an Internet Service Provider ISP . The border network is typically provided and maintained by a business or organization such as a local telephone company or cable company. The border network may provide network communication related services to their customers. In contrast the communication device accesses and is accessed by the VoIP network via a public switched telephone network PSTN operated by a local exchange carrier LEC . Communication via any of the networks can be wired wireless or any combination thereof. Additionally the border network and PSTN may communicate in some embodiments with the VoIP Network through a media gateway device . For ease of instruction only three communication devices are shown communicating with the VoIP network however numerous such devices and other devices may be connected with the network which is equipped to handle enormous numbers of simultaneous calls and other communications.

In general a request for a collaboration conference over the VoIP network is initiated by a requester through one of the communication devices associated with the network. As used herein the term collaboration conference includes any type of collaboration between three or more users of a communication network. For example the collaboration conference may include audio collaboration video collaboration web collaboration a combination of any of the above and the like. For ease of instruction the collaboration conferences discussed herein are generally made in reference to an audio conference although any type of collaboration conference over a telecommunications network is envisioned with respect to the present disclosure. Similarly although illustrates the communication devices as telephonic devices the communication devices may be any type of communication device including personal computers cellular phones and the like.

Upon receipt of the request for a collaboration conference the network routes the request to the CCRS integrated within the network . However it should be appreciated that the CCRS may be a part of the network may be separate from the network or may have portions deployed in the network and out of the network. In addition the CCRS may be resident on one or more components of the VoIP network including several instances of the CCRS integrated throughout the network . Further although only a single instance of a CCRS is illustrated in any number of CCRS instances may be present in the network to form a CCRS system. As discussed in more detail below the network may account for the availability of multiple CCRS devices or instances through a process of establishing a master CCRS control engine.

To transmit the request to the network the requester uses the communication device to dial a conference specific telephone number. In some instances the network upon receipt of the dialed communication executes an application that queries the requester to enter an access code number that the requester enters into the communication device . With this information the network determines that the requester intends to initiate or join a collaboration conference and routes the request to a conference bridge as explained in greater detail below.

In any event the CCRS receives the request to begin a collaboration conference or join an existing conference. In response and described in more detail below the CCRS may route the one or more requests to one of several conference bridges associated with the VoIP network for hosting of the collaboration conference. Although only two conference bridges are shown in it should be appreciated that any number of conference bridges may be associated with the network for hosting collaboration conferences.

In general the conference bridges provide a hosting site for a collaboration conference between a plurality of users of the network . Thus conference bridge A may host a collaboration conference while conference bridge B may host an additional collaboration conference. In particular conference bridge A is connected to the communications network through a media gateway similar to the media gateway disclosed above. This configuration may be utilized when the conference bridge is a time division multiplex TDM bridge. Conference bridge B is internal to the communications network through which the communications of the conference are transmitted. This configuration is utilized for Internet Protocol IP based bridges.

Additionally the CCRS may be configured for use with any number of network and conference bridge platforms. For example the telecommunications network of may be configured as a TDM network or an IP based network which includes video audio and web based components to which the CCRS may be configured to interface. Another particular network and or conference bridge platform supported by the network configuration of is a Session Initiation Protocol SIP based network. For example conference bridge B may be a SIP based conference bridge. Such IP based components may provide additional conferencing features to the network by providing information concerning the collaboration conference in a header of a message transmitted through the network such as an identification of the collaboration conference video integration Uniform Resource Identifier URI based routing and conference integration conference access credentials for authentication and permission to enter the requested conference. SIP based conference bridges may also provide high definition audio additional security features and transitions between collaboration conferences without having to redial into the system. In general because components operating utilizing SIP can exchange information within a header many additional features for a collaboration conference can be offered to participants on a SIP based conference bridge. In addition SIP based CCRS devices may utilize many of the advantages of information exchange within the header when communicating with TDM based network devices.

To connect to a collaboration conference each participant to the conference may be routed to the same conference bridge for the duration of the conference. The conference bridge in turn provides communication ports for each participant such that each participant can hear or otherwise participate in the collaboration conference. Any conference bridge known in the art or hereafter developed may be integrated into the system of for hosting a collaboration conference. In addition the term conference bridge or bridge includes any component of a communication network that provides an access point to one or more users of the network for a collaboration conference. For example conference bridge may also include such devices as a media server device a gateway server device or the like as configured within the network .

Returning to the network may be utilized by one or more participants to a collaboration or conferencing communication hosted on a conference bridge . In particular is a flowchart of a method for the CCRS of the network to receive a request from one or more participants to join a collaboration session and route the participants to the proper conference bridge through which the collaboration is hosted. In general the operations described in relation to the flowchart of are performed by one or more components of the CCRS as part of the telecommunications network .

Beginning with operation a participant to a conference communication may dial into the conference using a telephonic device and or . In particular the participant may dial a conference number and or enter a conference code to access the collaboration conference. The media gateway or other switching device routes the request from the participant to the CCRS through the network . In the request is illustrated by the dashed line between the media gateway and the CCRS . As should be appreciated in some IP networks the request may be routed to the CCRS on a signaling plane and does not include the audio portion of the communication. The request is then received by the CCRS as indicated by operation of .

Upon receipt the CCRS determines in operation which of the available conference bridges associated with the network that is hosting or will host the collaboration conference requested by the participant. The CCRS may utilize several factors to determine which conference bridge hosts the collaboration conference. Such factors and operations performed by the CCRS to determine the appropriate conference bridge are discussed in more detail below. In addition the CCRS may communicate with one or more of the conference bridges associated with the network in operation . This communication between the CCRS and the conference bridges is illustrated by the dashed lines between the CCRS and the conference bridges in . Further in the embodiment in which the conference bridge is within the network the CCRS would communicate directly with the conference bridge without going through the media gateway device .

In one embodiment the CCRS communicates particularly with the app server component of the conference bridge to determine the appropriate collaboration bridge and to establish the collaboration conference. The app server component of the conference bridge may provide any information concerning the conference bridge to the CCRS including number and types of available ports the technical capabilities of the conference bridge current collaboration conferences being hosted by the conference bridge and the like. In another example the conference bridge may be a SIP based conference bridge. In this example the CCRS would communicate with the app server through the network interface unit . The app server then provisions the requested ports and notifies the CCRS when such ports are available for the collaboration conference. In addition the app server provides the information of the conference bridge that may be utilized by the CCRS to determine which conference bridge will host the collaboration conference.

For example a participant may utilize the telephonic device or other communication device to access the network and request access to a collaboration conference. The media gateway associated with the communication device routes the request to the CCRS . In response the CCRS identifies conference bridge B as the conference bridge which will host or is hosting the collaboration conference. In one embodiment the CCRS communicates with conference bridge B to determine availability and verify that the collaboration conference is hosted on conference bridge B.

In operation the CCRS requests an open communication port from the conference bridge identified in operation . In the embodiment shown in the conference bridge may utilize a port in the DSP component of the conference bridge in response to the request sent by the CCRS . The open port in the DSP component allows the participant to connect to the collaboration conference hosted by the conference bridge and participate in the conference. In addition the conference bridge may transmit an acknowledgement to the CCRS from which the request originated to indicate that the requested communication is open. Again in IP based networks the request for available ports and acknowledgement may occur on a separate communication signal than the audio or video portion of the collaboration communication. Further a SIP based network the request may include certain information in the header of the request such as the master ID number and or the number of requested ports. The request made by the CCRS to the conference bridge is illustrated in as the dashed line from the CCRS to the media gateways associated with each conference bridge.

In operation the CCRS receives the acknowledgement message from the conference bridge . In one embodiment the acknowledgement message contains information that identifies the open port to the CCRS . For example in the SIP based embodiment the acknowledgment may include the IP address of the conference bridge in the header of the message. In response to receiving the acknowledgement message the CCRS routes the participant s communication to the open port in the conferencing bridge in operation . In one embodiment the CCRS facilitates the communication to the conference bridge such that the audio portion of the communication from the participant is no longer routed through the CCRS. For example in a network that utilizes Session Initiation Protocol SIP the CCRS may issue a SIP Refer command to the media gateway in operation to route the participant communication to the conference bridge effectively removing the CCRS from the communication flow. This refer message may include the IP address of the selected conference bridge in the header such that the network can route the communication to the selected conference bridge. The connection of the communication bypassing the CCRS is illustrated in as the solid line connecting the media gateway associated with the participant s telephonic device and the media gateway associated with conference bridge A . Thus through the use of the method outlined in the CCRS may receive a request from a participant of a collaboration conference and route the participant to the proper conference bridge that hosts the specific collaboration conference. In a similar manner collaboration conference participants may be routed to media gateway and conference bridge A such that multiple conferences may be occurring simultaneously through the network on multiple conferencing bridges .

As can be understood in light of the CCRS described above utilizing a central conferencing server provides several advantages over previous conferencing systems. As mentioned prior art conferencing systems statically connected each participant to a conferencing bridge based on the number assigned to the participant. Thus such networks had no mechanism for adjusting the load on any one conferencing bridge based on the number of conference participants. In addition such systems proved difficult in determining proper billing rates for the collaboration conference as each participant could be requesting access to the conference from any place on the globe without any central mechanism for determining the location of each participant.

In contrast the CCRS of the present disclosure provides flexibility in the routing and handling of the collaboration conferences. For example because each participant request is directed to the CCRS handling of the participant request is easier on the communications network as the termination point for each request is the same component of the network. In particular by including a component of the network that is dedicated to handling all requests for a conference participation other components in the network that were previously tasked with receiving and routing the request may be freed to handle other type of network traffic. In addition the CCRS provides protection against unintended overloading of a conference bridge. For example a very large company with several thousand employees may utilize the communication network for collaboration conferences. However because collaboration conference numbers are typically directly associated to a dedicated conference bridge for that number too many employees of a particular company attempting to initiate a collaboration conference at the same time may overload a conference bridge that is already hosting several other collaboration conferences. To prevent this many communication networks may assign several conferencing access numbers to the very large company so that the employees are spread over several conference bridges. However providing several conferencing access numbers to a single entity may be confusing to the employees of the very large company. In contrast because the CCRS provides dynamic routing of the conference participants a single conference access number may be provided to the very large company as the same conference access number may be routed to any one of the available conferencing bridges rather than the dedicated conference bridge for the number. In this example even if an inordinate number of employees attempt to initiate collaboration conferences at the same time the CCRS can route the participants accordingly such that all of the collaboration conferences do not end up on the same conference bridge that may overload the bridge.

In another example an administrator of a collaboration conference may prefer to include other types of multimedia communications to accompany the voice portion of the collaboration conference. For example a web page may be provided to an administrator of the conference to provide presentations and or control over the conference. The web moderator web page provides such control features as the ability to mute all participants disconnect a particular individual participant show the number and identification of each participant and the like. However such a web page may not be within the capabilities of each conference bridge. Thus when such features are requested by a moderator of the collaboration conference it is often advantageous to place the conference on a conference bridge that supports such features. Such routing of a conference to a conference bridge that supports the technical requirements of the collaboration conference can occur dynamically through the use of the CCRS described above. Further examples of dynamic routing advantages gained through the use of a CCRS in the telecommunications network are described below.

Also a conferencing system that utilizes a CCRS can adapt to varying aspects of the collaboration conference. For example the CCRS may identify that the participants to a particular collaboration conference are originating from a certain region of the world based on the telephonic device the requester accesses the network. In this example the CCRS can route each participant to a conference bridge that is geographically located near the region of the world of each participant to improve the reliability of the conference. Also the CCRS may aid in the accurate billing of the conference to a customer by providing a central location in which information for each participant to a conference can be retained and retrieved by the telecommunications network. Such information may not be available to a conference bridge that just receives communications from the telecommunications network as the information may be spread over any number of devices in the network.

An additional advantage provided by the CCRS is a more robust and faster disaster recovery during failure of a conference bridge hosting a collaboration conference. In previous conferencing systems such disaster recovery required a network administrator to reroute each participant to the conference to a new conference bridge requiring both time and manpower to accomplish. In contrast the CCRS as described herein may be programmed to identify a failure at a conference bridge and dynamically reroute each participant to a new conference bridge. This rerouting of the participants to a new conference bridge may occur with or without action by a network administrator such that disaster recovery occurs automatically. These advantages and more may be realized through the utilization of a CCRS in a conferencing system provided by a telecommunications network.

The CCRS may include a database configured to store information concerning an associated network one or more customers or users of the network identification numbers and or any other information useful by the CCRS in routing billing load balancing disaster recover and the like for collaboration conferencing communications. For example the database may store identification numbers for individuals or groups of users to the network who have access to a collaboration conference feature. Associated with the identification numbers may be one or more telephone numbers access codes communication device identifications master identifications and routing rules associated with the users. The database may also store information associated with the routing and handling of collaboration conferencing such as accepted communication devices welcoming messages and operational rules for conducting the collaboration conference. In general any information that may be utilized by the CCRS to route a collaboration communication and conduct the collaboration conference may be stored in one or more databases associated with the CCRS.

The CCRS also includes a web server or web application that utilizes one or more applications stored in an application server to execute the one or more applications. For example the web server may include one or more application programming interfaces APIs that execute any number of stored applications to perform the operations described herein. The web server may also enable the provisioning of the databases of the CCRS by the application server . In addition the CCRS may include a network interface unit as a proxy for receiving any type of information and or instructions from the network to route the communication. The network interface unit may also initiate one or more of the applications stored in the application server or database for execution by the CCRS and or receive a request from the telecommunications network to initiate a collaboration conference.

Through the use of the described components the CCRS provides added flexibility and features to collaboration conferencing not previously available. For example because each collaboration conference request is routed through the CCRS or system of CCRS routing rules may be applied to a block of related requesters identified by a master ID number or customer number removing the need to update the routing rules for each member associated with the master ID or customer number. In addition the database of the CCRS may maintain a control engine or state of a particular CCRS that determines which conference bridge a collaboration conference occurs. Thus through the centralized nature of the CCRS and the storage of customer and conference information the CCRS provides flexibility in routing the collaboration conference requests.

In operation the CCRS may perform the operations of the flowchart of . In particular the CCRS receives a request to establish a collaboration conference at the network interface in operation . The request may include information concerning the requestor such as requestor s telephone number and access code number. However although the operations of are described in reference to the request comprising the requestor s telephone phone number and access code number this is but one example of the information used by the CCRS to identify the requester. For example the request may include an identification of the requester s communication device such as a text string of the requester s personal computer. In another example the requester s name may be used as the identifier of the requester in the request. Thus any operation described herein utilizing the requester s telephone number and access code may be applied to other information contained in the request. For ease of instruction however the example of the telephone number and access code number is used.

Upon receiving the request the application server in concert with the web server utilizes the requestor s telephone number and access code number to possibly determine a group ID number for the requester in operation . In particular with the requester s information the application server accesses a lookup table stored in the database to match the telephone number and code access number to the group ID number. In some instances it is advantageous to associate a group ID number to a group of users of the collaboration conference system. For example through the group ID one or more routing rules may be applied to the entire group without the need to provide a routing rule for each individual member of the group. In some instances the group ID number may be associated with a customer ID number such that each member associated with a customer ID number is given the same group ID number and alterations to the customer s account with the network can be applied to each group member through alterations to routing rules associated with the group ID number. Other information concerning the requester the network and or the collaboration conference may also be retrieved by the application server .

In operation the application server may also associate a master ID reference or number to the collaboration conference request and stores the master ID reference or number in the database . The master ID reference or number is utilized by the network to track the collaboration conference and the participants to the conference and may be associated with the requester s information. With the master ID number associated with the request the application server again accesses the database to determine a state of the collaboration conference. In general if the collaboration conference has been established on a conference bridge such that the requester is a participant to the collaboration conference and not the initiator the database includes an identification of the conference bridge on which the collaboration conferencing is hosted. Alternatively if the request is to initiate a new collaboration conference the database includes a notification the request is a request for a new collaboration conference at which point the application server routes the request to a master CCRS device that executes a master control engine application to determine which conference bridge will host the conference. In this manner the components of the CCRS receive the request to join or initiate a collaboration conference and route the request to the proper conference bridge.

As mentioned above the database may include a subscriber information table that associates information of the requester such as a telephone number access code number or other identification or reference of a requestor to a group ID number for the CCRS system. Thus several different requester references can be associated with the same group ID number such as a customer number. In addition one or more routing rules can be associated with a group ID number in the database . For example one routing rule may restrict all collaboration conferences for a particular group ID number to a particular conference bridge. This removes the need to manually change the routing rules for each individual requester for all of the members of a particular group ID number. Further the database of the CCRS may be utilized by a control engine of the CCRS system to store information utilized by the control engine such as associating a master ID number of a collaboration conference with an ID of the conference bridge on which the conference is hosted the status of a collaboration conference the start time of the collaboration conference the participant count of the conference the maximum number of participants that have attended the particular conference and the like. In general the database may include any information concerning collaboration conferences hosted by the telecommunications network.

I O device may also include an input device not shown such as an alphanumeric input device including alphanumeric and other keys for communicating information and or command selections to the processors . Another type of user input device includes cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processors and for controlling cursor movement on the display device.

System may include a dynamic storage device referred to as main memory or a random access memory RAM or other computer readable devices coupled to the processor bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by the processors . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions by the processors . System may include a read only memory ROM and or other static storage device coupled to the processor bus for storing static information and instructions for the processors . The system set forth in is but one possible example of a computer system that may employ or be configured in accordance with aspects of the present disclosure.

According to one embodiment the above techniques may be performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . These instructions may be read into main memory from another machine readable medium such as a storage device. Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory may cause processors to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with the software instructions. Thus embodiments of the present disclosure may include both hardware and software components.

A machine readable medium includes any mechanism for storing information in a form e.g. software processing application readable by a machine e.g. a computer . Such media may take the form of but is not limited to non volatile media and volatile media. Non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks. Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory . Common forms of machine readable medium may include but is not limited to magnetic storage medium e.g. floppy diskette optical storage medium e.g. CD ROM magneto optical storage medium read only memory ROM random access memory RAM erasable programmable memory e.g. EPROM and EEPROM flash memory or other types of medium suitable for storing electronic instructions.

By utilizing one or more of the embodiments described above the CCRS system may route a collaboration conference communication to an appropriate conference bridge based on any number of preferences or information about the requester and or communication network. In one example the CCRS may employ one or more control engines that monitor or maintain a status of the collaboration conferences occurring over the network. The control engines maintain information about each collaboration conference such as a master identification number for the conference a status such as active inactive temporary or unknown the conference bridge on which the conference is hosted a start time for the conference a participant count a maximum participant count and a stop time for the conference among other information in a database associated with the CCRS system. In general the control engines may obtain or receive any information about the conference and maintain a record of the information for use by the CCRS system. As such each control engine in the CCRS may be connected to or otherwise associated with the conference bridges associated with the communications network to provide and receive information concerning the collaboration conferences of the network. In one embodiment the control engines may be an application executed by the application server with the information or data stored in the database . The operation of the control engine in relation to the CCRS is described in more detail in U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 13 708 659 titled METHOD FOR ROUTING IN A CENTRAL CONFERENCING ROUTING SERVER which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The CCRS may utilize the information maintained in the database or databases of the CCRS system to perform several of the functions related to the routing of conference communications described above. For example a request received by the CCRS to join an existing collaboration conference may be routed to the correct conference bridge by referring to the information stored by the control engines in the database. As mentioned above the control engines maintain a status of each conference and the conference bridge on which the conference occurs. With this information the CCRS may appropriately route any additional participants to the correct conference bridge. Such information may also aid in routing requests for a new collaboration conference to a suitable conference bridge including based on network performance and user preferences. One example of such a CCRS system utilizing performance and preference information to route one or more requests to initiate a collaboration conference is described in more detail below.

In addition the CCRS may be connected to any number of conference bridges . The conference bridges are similar to the conference bridges described above with relation to such that the connections between the CCRS and the conference bridges may occur over one or more telecommunications networks. In general the conference bridges host collaboration conferences. Although five such conference bridges are shown in it is contemplated that any number of conference bridges may be connected to or otherwise associated the CCRS . Also although the system of is configured such that the CCRS is connected to each available conference bridge through CCRS bridge communication lines the system may be configured differently such that the CCRS is connected to any number of available conference bridges. As should be appreciated the CCRS bridge communication lines may occur over any number of telecommunications networks as described in relation to above.

In previous collaboration conference systems of telecommunications networks the load experienced by any one conference bridge is typically not analyzed by the network prior to routing of a collaboration conference request to a conference bridge. Rather many such conventional systems used simple methods to attempt to spread the collaboration conferences across the available conference bridge. For example one such method included dividing a received access code from the requester by a specific number and assigning the request to a conference bridge based on the remainder value from the division. Thus although this method attempted to balance the collaboration conferences across the conference bridges the systems generally did not account for the number of participants to the collaboration conferences or the general load experienced by the conference bridges at any one time. In addition the method failed to account for the potential for additional collaboration conferences and the load those additional conferences may place on the conference bridges. Rather such load balancing was typically accomplished through a manual manipulation of the requests from a human administrator of the network.

Through the use of the CCRS system illustrated in however a load balancing or intelligent routing of collaboration conference requests can be accomplished. In particular referring to the CCRS system receives a request to join a collaboration conference in operation and determines the conference bridge that will host the collaboration conference in operation . The flowchart of is one embodiment of a method to receive such a request and determine the hosting conference bridge based on performance parameters of the conference bridges. In one specific example implementation the operations of the flowchart of may be performed a CCRS executing the master control engine application by collecting performance information from the conference bridges and selecting a conference bridge for hosting the collaboration conference based at least in part on the performance information.

Beginning in operation the CCRS determines a master identification or master ID for the collaboration conference request. In particular the request received by the CCRS from the requester may include any information to identify the requester including a telephone number and an access code number. With this information contained in the request the CCRS accesses a database of customer related information and determines a master ID number that is associated with the request. In one embodiment the master ID number is related to a group ID number of the requester. In general the master ID number aids the CCRS in identifying the collaboration conference and tracking the progress of the collaboration conference within the network. Further as explained in more detail below the group ID number if one is associated with the requester may be used as a reference to determine one or more priority tables or routing rules to apply to the collaboration conference request.

After the master ID and possibly related number group is determined in operation the CCRS obtains a priority list or table associated with that master ID or number group from the database. In general the priority table includes a list of one or more of the conference bridges of the network prioritized in order of preference for the particular master ID or group ID number. is a diagram illustrating an example of a priority table including a list of a plurality of available conference bridges for a requester to a collaboration conference based on the identifier of the requester. The entries in the priority table of correspond to the system shown in . The priority table comprises a column of one or more of the available conference bridges and a column of the priority of each conference bridge for that particular master or group ID number. In the embodiment shown in the conference bridges are listed in descending order based on the priority. Thus conference bridge C corresponding to conference bridge of has a priority level of 1 in the table conference bridge A conference bridge B and conference bridge D corresponding to conference bridges and respectively have a priority level of 2 in the table and conference bridge E corresponding to conference bridge has a priority level of 3 in the table.

It should be appreciated that the embodiment of the priority table of is but one example of a possible priority table for a master or group ID collaboration conference number. For example although the priority table in includes a priority for every conference bridge in the system it is not required that each conference bridge be given a priority for a particular ID number. In one particular example the priority list may include a single conference bridge for routing of collaboration conferences for that master or group ID number. Also the priority table may include any number of priority levels. Further any number of conference bridges may have the same priority in the priority table. Thus similar to the priority level 2 in the table of a plurality of conference bridges may have the same priority level in the priority table. For example the priority table may include the five available conference bridges each with a priority level of 1 . Also the priority table may be organized in any manner that is useful for retrieval from the database by the CCRS. For example the conference bridges may be sorted in ascending order of priority level descending order or any other order that aids the master control engine in selecting a hosting conference bridge from the priority table.

The prioritization of the conference bridges in the priority table may be for any number of performance reasons. In one embodiment the priority given to any conference bridge is based on the geographic location of the conference bridge. For example a customer to the telecommunications network may request that all collaboration conferences transmitted from that customer occur on a conference bridge local to the customer. Thus a European customer may request a high priority given to a European based conference bridge. In another embodiment the priority may be based on the technical features of a conference bridge. For example a particular customer to the telecommunications network may request access to conference bridges that provide both video and audio collaboration capabilities. Such technical features may be provided by a SIP or other IP based conference bridges. Therefore in this example the conference bridges in the network that provide such services may be given a higher priority than those bridges that do not provide such technical features. In another embodiment the priority may be based on the size of the customer. More particularly a customer with a large member size may have a conference bridge dedicated to the members of that customer such that the dedicated conference bridge is given a high priority in the priority table for members of that customer. In yet another embodiment the priority may be based on any combination of the above factors including geographic location and technical capabilities of the conference bridges in the network.

In the example shown in and the priority table includes three priority levels for the five conference bridges . The highest priority priority 1 is given to conference bridge C perhaps because conference bridge C is geographically located nearest the requester or because conference bridge C provides technical features not available from the other conference bridges. A second priority priority 2 is given to conference bridge A conference bridge B and conference bridge D . In the priority table of the conference bridges with the same priority level are sorted based on an identification number of the conference bridge such that conference bridge A is listed before conference bridge B and so on. However similar to conference bridges of different priority levels the sorting of conference bridges with the same priority level may take any form. A third priority priority 3 is given to conference bridge E perhaps because conference bridge E is geographically the furthest from the requester or for some other reason related to the conference bridge and the requester of the collaboration conference.

Returning to the method of once the priority table for the requester is obtained the CCRS performs a load analysis for the conference bridges with the highest priority in the priority list in operation . In one embodiment the load analysis is performed only for the conference bridges with the highest priority. In another embodiment the load analysis for each conference bridge connected to the CCRS is performed. In yet another embodiment the load analysis is performed at regular intervals regardless of the priority tables stored in the database. In this embodiment the CCRS may store the results of the load analysis in a database for use by the CCRS at any time. Thus rather than performing the load analysis at the time a conference is requested the CCRS may instead retrieve the latest load analysis information stored in the database for one of more of the conference bridges.

To perform the load analysis the CCRS may perform the operations illustrated in the flowchart of . Beginning in operation the CCRS requests certain performance information from one or more of the conference bridges. In particular the CCRS requests the capacity of the conference bridge such as the total number of communication ports for the bridge and the number of currently active or reserved ports. This information is received by the CCRS in operation . It should be recognized that some or all of the information may be stored and retrieved from storage as opposed to querying the bridges themselves. Additionally the conference bridges may be configured to auto report the performance information to the CCRS such that operation may be omitted from the method. Regardless performance information is obtained by the CCRS for at least one of the conference bridges of the network.

In operation the CCRS calculates a percentage of available communication ports of the conference bridge or bridges. For example a conference bridge may transmit the capacity of the conference bridge as 900 000 ports of which 300 000 ports are active or reserved. Thus in this example 33 of the ports of the conference bridge are active or reserved such that 67 of the ports of the conference bridge are available for further collaboration conferences. In this manner based on the performance information received from the conference bridges the CCRS calculates the percentage of communication ports that are available at the conference bridge. In some embodiments this information can be stored in a related database for use by the CCRS such as during load balancing outlined in .

In operation the CCRS identifies those conference bridges that have a percentage of available communication ports that drops below a threshold value. For example the CCRS system may be configured to identify any conference bridge that has an available capacity percentage below 10 indicating that 90 of the communication ports of the conference bridge are in use. In general the threshold value may be any percentage value as set by an administrator of the CCRS system as computed by the system such as through historical use trends or otherwise. This analysis may further consider the size of a potential collaboration conference such that a conference with several participants may be included in the analysis of available capacity to determine if the conference bridge can host the conference. Once identified as having insufficient available ports the CCRS may mark the conference bridge as unavailable for hosting a collaboration conference until the capacity percentage returns to within an acceptable range. Thus the CCRS may continue to analyze or monitor unavailable conference bridges to determine when the conference bridge returns to acceptable capacity. Such analysis may be calculated in conjunction with a conference requested or independently. In addition each CCRS device in the CCRS system may have its own threshold value such that the threshold value for one CCRS device is not necessarily the same as the threshold value of another CCRS device in the system.

Returning to operation of the CCRS conducts the load analysis outlined above for at least the conference bridges with the highest priority. Utilizing the example priority table of the CCRS performs a load analysis on conference bridge C as it is listed in the priority table for that master ID as having the highest priority. Further assume for the sake of this example that the load analysis indicates that conference bridge C is not available. In other words the percent available capacity of conference bridge C is below the threshold value for the CCRS system. Thus in operation the CCRS determines if any of the conference bridges identified in operation are available. In the example used conference bridge C is identified but the load analysis indicates that the bridge is unavailable. Thus the CCRS would proceed to perform operation .

In operation the CCRS removes from consideration those bridges with the highest priority. In other words if the CCRS determines that no conference bridge with the highest priority is available to host the collaboration conference request the CCRS moves to the next lower priority level and again determines the load availability of the conference bridge or conference bridges for the next priority level in operation . Continuing the above example as conference bridge C was deemed as unavailable due to the load condition of the bridge the CCRS moves to the next lower priority level in this case priority level 2 and performs the load analysis on conference bridge A conference bridge B and conference bridge D as these conference bridges all have the priority level of 2 . Further after performing the load analysis on these conference bridges the CCRS determines if any conference bridge of the identified bridges is available in operation . In some embodiments the load analysis may be performed for every bridge in the system or on a subset of bridges such that the lack of an available bridge within a priority level results in the CCRS attempting to connect to a bridge at a lower priority level without performing a new load analysis.

If it is determined in operation that a conference bridge is available based on the load calculation for the bridge or bridges the CCRS selects a conference bridge to host the collaboration conference in operation . In some instances the CCRS may select between several available conference bridges such as when several conference bridges have the same priority level and are available based on the load analysis. In one embodiment of the method of the CCRS in this circumstance selects the conference bridge with the most available capacity of those conference bridges analyzed in operations and . In another embodiment the CCRS selects the next available conference bridge based on the conference bridge ID. In any event the CCRS selects a conference bridge from the available conference bridges in operation . In rare circumstances each conference bridge in the customer s priority table may be full or unavailable. In this instance the request for a collaboration conference may be denied and a recorded message may be provided to the requester indicating that all of the circuits are currently active.

With the selection of the conference bridge in operation the CCRS can return to the method of and connect the requester to a conference bridge for the collaboration conference. Thus through the operations of the CCRS can intelligently route collaboration conferencing requests to a conference bridge based on a preference by the requester through the priority table and on the available capacity for the preferred conference bridge or bridges. In this manner collaboration conferences through the telecommunications network that utilize the CCRS system can be balanced to avoid over loading of a conference bridge as well as provide flexibility of the network in providing the type of collaboration conference desired by the customers to the network.

In another embodiment of the CCRS system the CCRS is configured to provide a throttling feature when selecting a conference bridge for hosting a collaboration conference. In some circumstances a conference bridge is powered down or otherwise temporarily removed from the telecommunications network. For example a conference bridge that has failed may require a reboot to restart the conference bridge. In another example a new conference bridge may be added to the telecommunications network. In these circumstances the CCRS system may be configured to add collaboration conferences to the newly added or restarted conference bridge slowly so as to not overload the conference bridge quickly. When such throttling applies the CCRS system limits the number of ports requested of the conference bridge for particular time frames slowly increasing the number of active ports until the conference bridge is near the level of the other conference bridges in the system. In one embodiment a conference bridge being throttled may have a threshold value that reflects the slow accrual of active ports on the conference bridge and prevent too many active ports on the bridge at any one time. For example a newly added conference bridge may begin with a threshold value of 50 for a particular amount of time to prevent the bridge from having more than half of the communication ports active upon starting. In another embodiment the conference bridge being throttled may limit the number of consecutive new collaboration conference starts that occur on that particular bridge. Once the limit is reached the throttled conference bridge is held from hosting new collaboration conferences for a set amount of time. Further such throttling may be overridden in those circumstances where no other conference bridge is available. In other words the throttling feature may be overridden to prevent a collaboration conference from not being connected.

As described in above once the conference bridge is selected the CCRS routes the conference request to a conference bridge by requesting the conference bridge for an available port on the bridge. If the conference request is a request to establish a collaboration conference the request may be for a plurality of available ports to host the conference. The allocation of available ports associated with the conference bridge for hosting the conference may be handled by a request from the CCRS or by a control server associated with the conference bridge. In either case available ports of the conference bridge may be made available in response to the conference request.

As mentioned above the CCRS system may include a plurality of control engines executing on several CCRS devices or application servers. As such a master CCRS device or master control engine may be set to determine which control engine routes a collaboration conference request. In one embodiment the master control engine may be determined by connection criteria. For example each control engine of the CCRS devices may maintain a total number of bridges that are connected to all of the control engines with which the local control engine is communicating. In this embodiment the control engine that sees the highest total number of bridges is selected as the master control engine and handles all collaboration conference requests. However if more than one control engine sees the highest total number of bridge connections the control engine with the highest number of local connections between the control engines with the highest total number is selected as the master control engine. If no single control engine is selected by the first two criteria than a prioritized system ID may be employed to select the master control engine. It should be appreciated that this is but one example of a method for selecting the master control engine and any method to select a master control engine from the operating control engines may be employed. The use of a master control engine to determine which conference bridge a new collaboration conference is established may aid in preventing a split conference being established on multiple bridges. Additionally any control engine of the CCRS may act as the master control engine based on any criteria including the example mentioned above. Some delay may be incorporated into the switching the master control engine from one engine to another to prevent bouncing from one engine to another rapidly.

Another advantage that the priority list provides is in the situation when a conference bridge is placed offline or suffers a failure. For example a scheduled maintenance on one of the conference bridges may be desired by a network administrator. Thus conferences currently being hosted on the conference bridge for repair may be maintained by the CCRS but new conferences may be directed to other conference bridges in an effort to remove the conferences from the selected conference bridge. To accomplish this the CCRS may remove the selected conference bridge from the priority lists for each requester. Thus when a request is received and the CCRS consults the priority list for the requester the selected bridge is not an available option. However the master control engine may continue to direct requests for ongoing conferences to the proper conference bridge. The operation of disaster recovery in relation to the CCRS is described in more detail in U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 13 708 689 titled DISASTER RECOVERY WITH A CENTRAL CONFERENCING ROUTING SERVER which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The CCRS may perform a similar operation when a conference bridge enters a failure state. In this situation the failed bridge may be removed from the priority list for each requester. In addition all requests received by the CCRS to join an existing conference may be sent to another conference bridge. However this may create a situation where a conference is split between two conference bridges. In this situation the CCRS may generate a notice to a network administrator of the potential for a split conference so that the administrator may direct each participant of the split conference to a single operating conference bridge. In some embodiments the recovery of a split conference into a united conference may be performed automatically by the CCRS upon detection. In addition upon bringing the failed bridge back online the CCRS may throttle the conferences placed on the bridge to prevent an overload of the bridge.

The CCRS includes other features that may aid the network in transmitting collaboration conferences. For example one embodiment of the CCRS may route an internet or web connection that is associated with the collaboration conference to the same conference bridge that hosts the conference to maintain continuity between the related web application and the conference. Another example may include a conference lingering feature that maintains the status of each conference in the state engines for a specified amount of time to allow any changes or alterations to the requesters account to propagate to each conference bridge and state engine associated with the CCRS. Additionally the CCRS may be configured to collect information about the conferences and store this information for analyze or use by the network and or administrators of the network. For example information on the number of participants associated with any conference may be maintained for future analysis to differentiate large conference users for future routing decisions.

Embodiments of the present disclosure include various steps which are described in this specification. The steps may be performed by hardware components or may be embodied in machine executable instructions which may be used to cause a general purpose or special purpose processor programmed with the instructions to perform the steps. Alternatively the steps may be performed by a combination of hardware software and or firmware.

The foregoing merely illustrates the principles of the invention. Various modifications and alterations to the described embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art in view of the teachings herein. It will thus be appreciated that those skilled in the art will be able to devise numerous systems arrangements and methods which although not explicitly shown or described herein embody the principles of the invention and are thus within the spirit and scope of the present invention. From the above description and drawings it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the particular embodiments shown and described are for purposes of illustrations only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. References to details of particular embodiments are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

