---

title: Messaging device
abstract: A portable messaging device is provided that can display visual messages and communicate with additional messaging devices via a local area network. The portable messaging device can include a display panel having an LED array, and a control unit. Lateral side walls, and the inner surface of the display panel can define at least part of a recessed opening configured to receive an electronic device such as a smartphone. The control unit can receive input via a user interface of the portable messaging device and, responsive to the input, provide a visual message to the LED array for display from the outer surface of the display panel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09584641&OS=09584641&RS=09584641
owner: 
number: 09584641
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20160907
---
This application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 as a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 795 480 filed Mar. 12 2013 and titled Messaging Device which claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 641 094 filed May 1 2012 and titled Messaging Device each of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Attention getting and easily configurable signs are neither personal nor portable. For individuals in an open space visible message expression solutions are bulky awkward or single use. For each personal solution today there are shortcomings. Cardboard and preprinted banners are portable but not reconfigurable. Whiteboards and chalkboards are reconfigurable but not very portable. Smartphones are portable and reconfigurable but are limited by viewing angles and ambient light.

At least one aspect is directed toward a hardware portable messaging device that may be referred to herein as a Flashpod. In one implementation the portable messaging device is a self powered portable hardware device. An LED array also referred to as an LED display on one flat side e.g. a display panel of the portable messaging device illuminates individual lights to display text images symbols or messages output via integrated controls or a software application programming interface API or other protocol used as an interface for communication within or between portable messaging device components. The portable messaging device can be molded into any form factor. For example the portable messaging device can be part of a case for a portable electronic device. The portable messaging device can incorporate a rechargeable battery can have USB connectivity and can have wireless communication for example to provide or adjust a display. The portable messaging device can access or include gyroscopic and proximity sensors to determine its spatial orientation relative to other messaging devices people geographic coordinates the ground the horizon or other electronic devices.

At least one aspect is directed to a hardware portable messaging device that allows an associated carrier to broadcast a visible message to a targeted audience in an open space. Messages and images for display by the portable messaging device can be created and stored on for example a paired or linked smartphone computing or media device tablet computer personal digital assistant other portable messaging device or the portable messaging device itself. In some implementations an application running on a connected device or a control on the Flashpod portable messaging device triggers an output on an integrated LED display of the portable messaging device to illuminate individual lights e.g. of the LED display in the form an image animation or text message.

At least one aspect is directed to a Flashpod portable messaging device enabled with wireless connectivity to communicate with nearby messaging devices. For example wirelessly linked messaging devices can form an intranet extranet personal area network local area network or virtual private network exchanging data via WiFi or Bluetooth communication protocols. In one example while in a linked state and positioned side by side messages and animations can cross from one linked portable messaging device display to another to form the perception of a single continuous display.

At least one aspect is directed to a portable messaging device. The portable messaging device can display visual messages and communicate with additional messaging devices via a local area network. The portable messaging device can include a display panel having an inner surface and an outer surface. The display panel can include an LED array. The portable messaging device can include a control unit that can communicate with the display panel and the portable messaging device can include a first lateral side wall and a second lateral side wall. The first lateral side wall and the second lateral side wall and the inner surface of the display panel can define at least part of a recessed opening. The portable messaging device can include a lid having a first end and a second end. The first end of the lid can pivot with respect to the first lateral side wall and the second end of the lid can contact an edge of the second lateral side wall. The portable messaging device can include a connector disposed in an inner wall of the recess. The control unit can receive input via a user interface of the portable messaging device and responsive to the input provide a visual message to the LED array for display from the outer surface of the display panel.

At least one aspect is directed to a method of displaying visual messages on a portable messaging device. The portable messaging device can display the visual messages and communicate with additional messaging devices via a local area network. The portable messaging device can include a first lateral side wall and a second lateral side wall. The first lateral side wall and the second lateral side wall can define at least part of a recessed opening to house a portable electronic device. The portable messaging device can include a display panel including an LED array. An inner surface of the display panel can form a back panel that can define at least part of the recessed opening to house the portable electronic device. An outer surface of the display panel can include the LED array to display the visual messages. The portable messaging device can include a control unit that can communicate with the display panel and a data storage unit. The portable messaging device can include a user interface that can receive input and communicate with the control unit to provide a visual message to the LED array for display from the outer surface of the display panel. The method can include obtaining by the control unit visual message data corresponding to the visual message from one of the data storage unit of the portable messaging device and communication via the local area network with a computing device. The method can include providing at least a portion of the visual message data to the display panel to cause the LED array to display the visual message.

At least one aspect is directed to a portable messaging device configured to display visual messages and communicate with additional messaging devices via a local area network. The portable messaging device can include a display panel including an LED array and a data storage unit that can store at least a portion of visual message data corresponding to a visual message. The portable messaging device can include a control unit that can communicate with the display panel and the data storage unit. The portable messaging device can include a power source coupled with the control unit. The power source can provide power to the control unit and the display panel. The portable messaging device can include a first lateral side wall and a second lateral side wall and a user interface that can receive input and communicate with the control unit to provide the visual message to the LED array for display. The portable messaging device can include a communication interface that can communicate with a second portable messaging device via the local area network to provide at least a portion of the visual message to the second portable messaging device for display by the second portable messaging device.

These and other aspects and implementations are discussed in detail below. The foregoing information and the following detailed description include illustrative examples of various aspects and implementations and provide an overview or framework for understanding the nature and character of the claimed aspects and implementations. The drawings provide illustration and a further understanding of the various aspects and implementations and are incorporated in and constitute a part of this specification

Following below are more detailed descriptions of various concepts related to and implementations of methods apparatuses and systems for a portable messaging device configured to display visual messages alone or together with at least one other portable messaging device. The various concepts introduced above and discussed in greater detail below may be implemented in any of numerous ways as the described concepts are not limited to any particular manner of implementation. Examples of specific implementations and applications are provided primarily for illustrative purposes. The present application is generally directed to a messaging device and systems and methods of providing a personal portable open space messaging device.

The control system can include at least one light emitting diode LED display also referred to herein as a LED array . The LED array can include at least one LED or other illumination element that can be controlled by control unit to activate and deactivate in a sequenced or patterned fashion so as to display a visual message perceptible to a viewer. The control system can include at least one battery or other power source to power the control system and components thereof. The power source can be coupled with components of the control system such as the control unit and the LED array .

The control system can also include at least one sensor to provide information regarding the state or orientation of the messaging device . For example the sensor can include at least one gyroscopic sensor. The control unit can receive data as input from the gyroscopic sensor and can use this data to determine the orientation of the messaging device . Based on the orientation the control unit can provide visual messages for display by the LED array with the proper spatial orientation e.g. horizontal vertical or landscape orientations. The sensor of a first messaging device can also include at least one proximity sensor that can detect additional messaging devices that are within a threshold distance or range e.g. less than 50 meters of the first messaging device . In one implementation the control unit communicates with the gyroscopic sensor or the proximity sensor to determine spatial orientation of messaging device relative to each other or to geographic coordinates the ground the horizon or another messaging device . The control unit can communicates this data to the other detected messaging devices .

The control system can include at least one interface . The interface can include an input interface or an output interface and can be an electrical interface or mechanical interface as well as combinations thereof. The interface can communicate with at least one electronic device e.g. a smartphone that is not the messaging device for example to receive instructions regarding a display pattern of a visual image to display using LED array . In this example a software application of the electronic device can provide a visual message or instructions regarding display of a visual message to the control unit . Responsive to receipt of these instructions the control unit can cause the LED array to display the visual message. For example the visual message can be typed into an interface of an electronic device and communicated from the electronic device to the messaging device for display by the messaging device . The interface can also receive input data from a user that can be provided to the control unit to identify select adjust or display visual messages using the LED array . In some implementations the interface can transmit or receive communications to or from additional messaging devices .

The power supply can include a rechargeable battery or disposable battery incorporated into the messaging device which may form a case for an additional electronic device . The battery can provide power to illuminate the LED array and to power the processor integrated into the PCB of the messaging device . The battery can be molded into the form specific to the messaging device housing. The battery in one example is not removable or user serviceable. The battery can charge or recharge until fully charged when a cable is connected into the pass through socket e.g. an interface discussed herein and the other end of the cable is connected to a power source or USB device that provides enough power to charge the battery. In one implementation the messaging device is part of a case that can house a smartphone or other computing device and the power supply of the messaging device can provide power to operate the smartphone for example as a backup or supplemental power supply when the power supply of the smartphone is low or discharged.

The messaging device can include at least one lid and at least one cutout . For example the messaging device can be formed as a case for a smartphone or other electronic device . The electronic device is not illustrated in the example of . The messaging device can include a first lateral side wall and a second lateral side wall . For example lateral side walls of a generally rectangular messaging device can form at least part of the longitudinal edges of the messaging device . The first lateral side wall can include an inner surface and an outer surface . The second side wall can include an inner surface and an outer surface . In one implementation the inner surface of the first lateral side wall and the inner surface of the second lateral side wall can form at least part of a recessed opening . The recessed opening which can be the same opening as the recessed opening discussed herein can form a slot or area for the disposal of the electronic device . In this example the messaging device forms a case for the electronic device . In some implementations the lid illustrated in a closed position on the example of and the base panel form part e.g. a top part of the recessed opening . In one implementation the recessed opening is constructed and arranged to house the electronic device . The messaging device can also include at least one display panel discussed further herein as in for example that can include the LED array and define at least part of the recessed opening . In one implementation the first lateral side wall and the second lateral side wall are sides of the messaging device and do not form part of any recessed opening for example when the messaging device is not configured as a case for an additional electronic device .

The messaging device can be made of a plastic rubber or composite device and can be formed from a single mold into which components such as the control system are assembled or from separate components. For example the lateral side walls can be an integral part of e.g. extensions adjacent components such as the base panel or the display panel or separate elements that are fixed together. The messaging device components such as the lid and the lateral side walls can be rigid or flexible. For example the messaging device can be made in part of rubber with some flexibility to accommodate the insertion and removal of the electronic device .

The cutout can include an aperture or opening in the messaging device for power or data inputs to access messaging device controls or for a lens of a digital camera. The cutout can be disposed in the lid in a front facing manner as in or on other surfaces of the messaging device . For example the cutout can include openings defined by the lid lateral side surfaces base panel or the display panel discussed herein. The cutout can provide visual manual or audio access to components of an electronic device disposed at least in part in the recessed area as discussed herein for example with reference to . In one implementation the opening is aligned with an audio visual or physical interface of the electronic device to allow access to the electronic device interfaces.

In some implementations the messaging device includes at least one speaker or microphone . The speakers or the microphones can be disposed in the base panel to provide audio input or output to or from an electronic device disposed in and operably connected with the messaging device . The speakers or microphones can be coupled to the control system to operate.

In one implementation the messaging device includes at least one LED array . For example as a self contained messaging device the messaging device can be configured to display messages using an integrated LED array . In one implementation each LED in the array can be individually controlled and regulated by integrated circuits on a Printed Circuit Board or PCB control unit of the messaging device . The LEDs can be controlled to illuminate dim or darken with the color and luminous intensity called by the program that sends data to the messaging device . The program can be executed by a processor or other logic device of the messaging device e.g. the control unit or by a supplemental computing device such as a smartphone that transmits instructions to the messaging device via a wireless connection e.g. an electronic device communicatively linked to the messaging device .

The LEDs can be illuminated e.g. continuously or intermittently to create or form an image or text such as a letter number word pattern or symbol. The LEDs can be controlled by logic of the messaging device the control system or of the supplemental electronic computing device e.g. smartphone to illuminate or darken in a sequence that forms the perception of a moving image or scrolling text. These visual messages e.g. images or text messages can be perceivable or readable by a viewer at a distance several meters to several dozen meters away from the carrier of the messaging device for example.

Individual LEDs in the LED array emit light of either a distinct color a set of colors or range of colors generated by a multi colored such as a Red Green Blue LED. In one implementation due to the luminous intensity of each diode the diodes are spaced apart by approximately e.g. 10 6 mm from diode center to diode center or approximately 3.75 mm from diode edge to diode edge. The LED array of the messaging device can be arranged as a rectangular grid or as a square triangle other polygonal shape ellipse oval or circle. In one implementation the LED array has a diode resolution of 9 16 positioned in a vertical orientation. However the LED array can be arranged to accommodate the space available to it and any number of diodes arranged across or down in a grid of the LED array . The LEDs that form the array can be powered by the internal battery of the messaging device e.g. the power source or a by a power source connected to a USB port or other interface of the messaging device .

In some implementations at least one LED of the LED array of the messaging device can illuminate in a flash sequence. For example data output to generated at or received by the messaging device can instruct LEDs of the LED array to illuminate. The instructions can be for an individual LED array patterns of LEDs of the LED array or all LEDs of the array . The LEDs or other lighting elements in the LED array can illuminate dim brighten or darken individually according to a requested light pattern. Patterns displayed on the LED array can create an image letter or symbol. Consecutive patterns of LED array illumination can create an animation or flash sequence.

In some implementations an application on a computer e.g. a smartphone that exchanges data with the messaging device via either a wired or wireless connection can download and store an image or flash sequence to data storage units or for later recall by the messaging device . For example an image of a butterfly can be downloaded to the messaging device and stored in a memory unit or of the messaging device . A flash sequence representing the butterfly flying can also be downloaded and stored in memory or on the messaging device . The interface can be a mechanical interface e.g. a button or series of buttons that can communicate with the control system to output the butterfly image or flash sequence to the LED array . In one implementation the interface includes a mechanical interface coupled to the outer surface of the first lateral side wall or to the outer surface of the second lateral side wall. Mechanical electrical or electro mechanical interfaces can be disposed at other surfaces of the messaging device such as on the display panel or the base panel for example. In one implementation actuation of the mechanical or other interface causes the control unit to provide at least part of a visual message to the LED array for display.

The interface e.g. a selector dial activation button or status indicator can allow a user to select a mode of operation of the messaging device such as a particular visual message or flash sequence. For example pressing or holding a button or multi clicking a button can cause the control system to perform additional functions such as configuring display settings of the messaging device or setting user configurable actions. In one implementation a digital status indicator e.g. part of the LED array or a separate interface can inform a user or other view of a state of the messaging device . For example the status indicator can display both images and animations. In one implementation a second LED array as in for example is the status indicator.

In some implementations the flash sequences or images are created with a software application that can be downloaded or streamed to the messaging device as data. Where the messaging device is molded into or otherwise configured as a case for an electronic device such as a smartphone tablet computer or any device that runs an application a messaging device API or Application Programming Interface runs on the device communicates with the application and sends the data required to output the image or sequence to the LED array of the messaging device .

The API of the messaging device can include an application running on a connected device e.g. a smartphone or other device that can communicate with the messaging device via the interface so that the messaging device receives an image e.g. a visual message to form display from the LED array or receives instructions to initiate a flash sequence from the connected device. The messaging device API can also allow a connected device to repurpose a default function of the messaging device . For example the API executing on the control system can receive instructions to execute a custom function such as initiate a new flash sequence or take a picture with a connected device s built in camera. In for example an armband implementation discussed herein the interface could include a mechanical button or disk to allow control of a connected music device responsive to user input. In this example the user interfaces with the messaging device to control a different electronic device e.g. smartphone that communicates with the messaging device via the interface or other connector.

The instructions can originate from the processor or control unit of the messaging device or from a supplemental electronic device that communicates with the messaging device . In one implementation the messaging device API is written for the connected device s e.g. smartphone s operating system and can be integrated into the application that outputs instructions to the messaging device to display images using the LED array .

Flash sequences and images can also be initiated in response to sensor driven actions. For example shaking the messaging device in quick side to side or other motions could initiate the messaging device to generate an emergency or distress flash sequence change the LED output color or initiate a flash sequence. For example the sensor could include a position motion accelerometer or force sensor that can detect motion or changes in motion and provide input to the control system to cause the control unit to select a visual message for display by the LED array from the display panel . Images or text displayed on the messaging device can communicate messages to targeted or general audiences using a standard or default color such as red or another primary color. In one example for purposes of emergency or distress messaging the interface e.g. a button application or messaging device movement can trigger the control system of the messaging device to execute a flash sequence in a color different from the default color for display by the LED array .

The side panel of the messaging device e.g. an outer surface of the first lateral side wall or the second lateral side wall can include at least one LED array as in the example of . The messaging device can include more than one LED array such as a first LED array on the outer surface of the display panel and a second LED array on an outer surface of the first or second lateral side walls . The control system directly or responsive to external instructions received from a control system of a different electronic device can provide e.g. from data storage units or visual messages to multiple LED arrays on one messaging device . The control system can provide the same visual message for simultaneous alternating or sequential display on multiple LED arrays of one messaging device . In some implementations the control system provides a visual message for display on one LED array e.g. from the back or outer surface of the display panel and a derivative of the same visual message for display on another LED array of the same messaging device e.g. from the outer surface of one or both of the lateral side walls . For example the derivative visual message can be a smaller version less accurate version or partial version of the primary visual message. In some implementations the control unit generates the derivative visual image.

The LED arrays can be disposed on the display panel first or second lateral side walls other lateral side walls e.g. top of the lid or bottom of the base panel or the front back or side surfaces of the base panel . In one implementation one LED array is disposed on multiple messaging device components such as a single LED array on both the display panel and one or more of the first and second lateral side walls .

In one implementation when the messaging device is not connected to another computer or electronic device manipulating specific messaging device controls e.g. the interface allows the user to read messaging device specific information such as battery level brightness message scroll speed default LED color communication status and flash sequence sets. Pressing a specific button or sequence either on the messaging device or a connected electronic device can initiate a preselected distress flash sequence. The flash sequence is designed to display a visual message anyone within visual range that the carrier needs immediate assistance. The flash sequence for example could illuminate HELP or SOS .

Referring to among others the messaging device can include connectors and speakers or microphones to communicate with the messaging device or supplemental devices. The connectors can include USB or proprietary connectors to mate the messaging device with an additional electronic devices so the control system and a control system of the electronic device can communicate. In one implementation the power source can provide power to the additional electronic device for example when a power supply of the additional electronic device is unavailable or exhausted.

Responsive to manual force the lid can flip open and closed to facilitate insertion and removal of an electronic device from the recessed area . With reference to and among others the recessed area can include a general opening or volume to accommodate an electronic device . In some implementations the recessed area can be defined at least in part by an inner surface of the first lateral side wall an inner surface of the second lateral side wall and an inner surface of the display panel . The recessed area can also be defined at least in part by an inner wall of the base panel and an inner surface of the lid .

In one implementation with the lid in the open position the electronic device can be disposed in the recessed area . Once disposed a user can close the lid to secure the electronic device within the recessed area . In some implementations a connector at the base of the electronic device can connect with at least one connector to provide for electrical communication between the messaging device and the electronic device disposed in the recessed area .

In some implementations the messaging device is is incorporated into or includes a case or housing for an electronic device . For example the messaging device can include a smartphone case that can house a smartphone. The case can offer some degree of protection to the electronic device from nominal impact should it be struck or dropped. In one example for a smartphone or other device that incorporates a front facing screen the messaging device does not hinder full use of the screen when the electronic device is disposed in the recessed area . If the electronic device incorporates a front facing camera the messaging device does not cover the opening for the camera in one example. In some implementations the messaging device that also forms a protective case for an electronic device can include two interlocking sections e.g. the lid and the main body that encase the electronic device leaving the electronic device s main display exposed and accessible e.g. facing outwardly from the recessed area where it is visible to a user. The messaging device case enclosure can be formed of impact absorbing material which can provide a degree of protection to the electronic device as well as the electronic components of the Flashpod messaging device .

In one implementation the messaging device provides openings to allow access to the electronic device s most often used buttons such as power volume mute or silent. In some implementations the case is an integral part of the messaging device and the supplemental electronic device e.g. smartphone can be disposed within the case. In one example the messaging device does not cover the electronic device s keyboard whether comprised of physical keys or keys virtually generated on the device s display screen and the messaging device neither interferes with nor enhances light sensors motion sensors or gyroscopic sensors of the encased electronic device in various implementations. The messaging device can allow the electronic device to be easily inserted and removed from an internal dock connector of the messaging device. In some implementations the interfaces and openings are positioned on the messaging device so as not to interfere with audio inputs or outputs docking ports connection ports SIM cards or other components of the electronic device .

The lid or upper section of the messaging device can be hinged to the main body or lower section across the width of one of the lateral side walls . With reference to at least one hinge can couple the lid with the first lateral side wall . In some implementations the hinge can couple the lid with the second lateral side wall . Connecting means other than the hinge can be used. For example snaps flexible material sliding connections or press fittings can couple the lid with the main body . In one implementation rather than the hinge the lid is completely removable from the main body and can be coupled to the main body by for example a snap fitting or hook and loop interlocking mechanism. In one implementation a first end of the lid contacts or can pivot with respect to an edge of the first lateral side wall . A second end of the lid can contact an edge of the second lateral side wall .

The lid or upper section can be locked in place via a latching mechanism on the opposite sidewall forming a secure enclosure. The top section of the case e.g. the lid can incorporate a hook for the latch to catch into a hole in the lower section. Sliding a lever on the latched sidewall can release the hook and allow the upper section e.g. lid to flip open. Tabs incorporated into the back wall of the top section e.g. lid guide and further secure it into the lower section e.g. main body . The upper section e.g. lid of the messaging device can completely cover the top wall partial upper sidewalls and a partial upper back wall of the encased electronic device . Openings in the top section e.g. lid can accommodate access to essential functions and features like the power button an audio jack antenna or other often used switches or buttons as well as a built in camera and flash.

In one implementation the lower section e.g. the base panel or the main body of a messaging device case can include any of a power input receptacle e.g. to receive a battery a PCB Printed Circuit Board the LED array sensors and other interfaces such as internal dock connector pass through socket controls and speaker and microphone ports . In one implementation where the messaging device includes the recessed area to function as a case the messaging device can include an internal dock connector that provides a physical connection between an electronic device and the messaging device incorporated into the case design. The case can provide a degree of protection to an electronic device it docks into the proprietary or mini USB port of the messaging device . This can establish a link that allows an application running on the electronic device e.g. smartphone to use the messaging device LED display output via the messaging device API the control system . In the case implementation of the messaging device the dock connector can be positioned such that an electronic device can be inserted into and removed from the case with ease. Access to the internal connection can be maintained via a pass through socket at the bottom of the case as in for example. The pass through socket may be also referred to as an interface or as an opening. The pass through socket can allow a USB or proprietary cable to connect to the supplemental electronic device while the electronic device is disposed in the recessed area of the messaging device . An opening cut in the side or bottom wall of the case can create the pass through socket . In one implementation fashioned into the opening is a pin compatible jack that directly connects to the jack into which the encased electronic device is inserted.

When a USB or proprietary cable is connected to the pass through socket while the electronic device is in the recessed area of the messaging device data can be transferred between the electronic device and a computer to which the other end of the cable is connected. When a USB or proprietary cable is connected to the pass through socket to a power source the messaging device s power supply can charge. Power may be supplied via a power adapter in a car or wall outlet a USB outlet on a USB hub or a USB outlet on a computing device. When a cable is directly connected to the pass through socket on one and a power source on the other end the Flashpod messaging device and the supplemental electronic device can charge simultaneously or sequentially if one or the other is not fully charged.

In one implementation when a portion of the messaging device e.g. the base panel or the main body the speaker or microphone of the electronic device disposed in the recessed area the messaging device includes a shaft or waveguide that covers the circumference of the speaker grill and redirects to a grill on the front of the messaging device . The messaging device can also incorporate an amplification system that relays sound from the supplemental electronic device s internal speaker through a speaker embedded behind the grill at the lower front wall e.g. the base panel of the messaging device . In some implementations in a fashion similar to the speaker redirect structure an internal shaft or waveguide of the messaging device can redirect any microphone that the case covers toward a grill at the lower front wall e.g. the portion of the base panel including the speakers or the microphones as in among others. In the event that the microphone shaft causes sound input distortion a microphone can be incorporated into the front of the messaging device e.g. in the base panel and can output to a speaker in front of the internal microphone on the smartphone or other device disposed in the recessed area.

The messaging device can include a power switch an interface that can have three positions e.g. OFF ON and LINKED . In the OFF position the messaging device can be shut down or can initiate a power down sequence. In one implementation in the OFF position an application cannot use the LED array as a display output. In the ON state for example the messaging device can power up and be configured to receive instructions from the messaging device control unit e.g. processor or from another electronic device either via a wired or wireless connection. In this state an application from the control system or from an external source can use the LED array as a display output to display a visual message.

In some implementations two or more messaging devices can be paired e.g. in communication with each other in a LINK state. For example an interface such as the power switch or other actuator can be manipulated into LINK position. Moving the messaging device s power switch to the LINK position can enable the LINK mode. When enabled the messaging device can wirelessly pair itself with one or more nearby messaging devices that have also been switched by their carriers to LINK mode for example via a Bluetooth WiFi or other locate area network or personal area network communication protocol. In one implementation the network communication between messaging devices includes local or personal area network connections that do not require Internet or mobile phone voice or data communication network connections. These communications between messaging devices or between messaging devices and electronic devices can be encrypted data communications for example utilizing AES 128 bit or other encryption protocols. The visual messages can be displayed and transmitted between messaging devices without obtaining or transmitting unauthorized personal identifying data regarding end users associated with the messaging devices . In one embodiment the control system of at least one messaging device is a smart ready hub that allows pairing of that messaging device with other messaging devices via a Bluetooth protocol.

In some implementations the messaging device in the LINK mode activates internal wireless communication protocols to pair e.g. couple or electronically communicate with nearby messaging devices . Paired messaging devices can exchange data e.g. between respective control systems or between respective electronic devices connected to the messaging devices necessary to display messages or flash sequences on their respective LED arrays for example. Data exchange between the messaging devices can allow paired messaging devices to create the perception of a singular display from their contiguous placement. The greater the number of contiguous messaging devices there are in the intranet or other local area network or computer network that interconnects messaging devices e.g. the greater number of linked messaging devices the greater the collective display and message impact of all or part of at least one visual message to the targeted viewers. In the linked state the messaging device can be powered on and able to communicate wirelessly with other linked messaging devices forming their own intranet. Linked messaging devices properly positioned or sequenced can collectively create a continuous LED display between multiple messaging devices by having visual messages such as images and animations move among multiple linked messaging devices . The messaging devices need not be touching each other in this example. For example two people walking down the street can each have one messaging device on an armband and the two messaging devices when viewed together e.g. by a third person can collectively display a message with each individual messaging device displaying a portion of the visual message.

In some implementations the control system of the messaging device can generate and display a visual message on the LED array . If the messaging device is connected to an additional electronic device visual messages such as images or flash sequences generated by an application on that additional electronic device are provided as output to the LED array via direct connection between the additional electronic device and the messaging device e.g. via the connector . Some implementations of the messaging device incorporate WiFi or Bluetooth communication chipsets for pairing or communicating with a host computer connected electronic device or another messaging device to receive visual messages for display or to transmit visual messages for display by other messaging devices .

In some implementations the messaging device includes a data storage unit e.g. memory to store information about the messaging device such as its state e.g. ON or LINK. The messaging device can exchange this information with other linked messaging devices as well as applications e.g. originating from a smartphone that access the control system API. In one implementation the messaging device has at least three power or communication states e.g. OFF or ON or LINKED

Logic units of the messaging device such as components of the control system can determine the orientation of the messaging device for example with respect to the ground using gyroscopic sensors . In one implementation a connected or encased supplemental device e.g. smartphone can communicate gyroscopic sensor data to the control system of the messaging device regarding orientation. The gyroscopic sensors can also be included in the messaging device and communicate with the processor of the messaging device to determine the position or orientation of the messaging device .

In some implementations by interpreting gyroscopic and proximity sensor data either from a connected or encased device or the messaging device itself the messaging device communicates its position relative to other linked messaging devices via WiFi or Bluetooth wireless communication. For example each linked messaging device in the intranet or other networked connection can be assigned a position on a virtual X Y plane. Positions can be reassigned as linked messaging devices are moved around or added into the virtual plane. This can preserve the continuity of a scrolling message or animation traversing across displays. The control system of one or more messaging devices can determine the ends of the virtual display and scrolls properly for example from right to left to appear as a ticker to the viewer. In another example at least one control system controls a visual message such as a racecar animation to start accelerate and end across the series of LED arrays of more than one messaging device in the correct order.

In one implementation the control unit of one messaging device synchronizes display of the visual message or portions thereof by communicating with at least one other messaging device via a local area network communication. For example the control unit can detect a second messaging device and can provide at least a portion of the visual message to the second messaging device for display by the second messaging device. In some implementations the control unit via the interface can receive at least part of the visual message from another messaging device or from another source such as a smartphone or other computing device including a cloud based server laptop or desktop computer tablet or server operating in a data center. The received visual message can be provided by the control unit to the LED array for display e.g. from the outer surface of the display panel .

In one implementation the control unit of at least one messaging device can detect other messaging devices for example via wireless communication within a range of tens of meters. The control unit can determine a hierarchy of the detected messaging devices for example passed on their geographic location or orientation and via at least one interface can communicate with the detected messaging devices to provide data notifying the control units of the other messaging devices of the hierarchy. For example the hierarchy may identify an order in which multiple messaging devices are to display a visual message for example in a scrolling manner where the visual message appears to run across multiple LED arrays of multiple messaging devices .

The LED array can have single color multi color or full color ranges and the direction and speed of a scrolling visual image can vary or be adjusted mid display by at least one control system . Animation continuity of visual messages can be maintained between the linked messaging devices . In one implementation at least one control system controls each visual image or each portion of one visual image to move across the LED array s at a constant speed that is communicated to other linked messaging devices and maintained across the intranet or other networked connection of linked messaging devices . In one implementation the interface which can include a communication interface to communicate via a local or other area network with other messaging devices can provide a portion of a visual message to one or more different messaging devices including the messaging device that includes the interface .

In one implementation the control systems of the messaging devices linked in their own intranet or local or personal area network have a master drone relationship. For example text animations visual images can move right to left across the LED arrays . In this example the position of the master messaging device and control system can be the rightmost messaging device relative to the viewer. Once all messaging devices in the intranet or generally all linked messaging devices are positioned the master control system or the drone control systems can determine the total number of linked messaging devices can determine the position of their respective messaging devices relative to the viewer and can determine in what order the animation visual message will move across the LED arrays of respective messaging devices .

The messaging devices can include ROM read only memory that can be accessed by the control unit to identify the messaging device model and LED array characteristics. In some implementations a messaging device may have a limited feature set compared to other messaging devices in a linked network or intranet. By communicating that data to the master control system and the drone control systems in the intranet or other linked network animation across those messaging devices can be skipped or adjusted. In one implementation the user of those limited messaging devices can be alerted to those restriction s by the messaging device or by an associated smartphone or other additional electronic device .

The messaging device can have various display resolutions. The control system of the messaging device can determine the number of LEDs on its LED array e.g. its display and the spacing between them. In one implementation image previews of the visual message can be seen though an application on a connected electronic device e.g. smartphone . Should a visual message image animation cross between messaging devices with different resolutions at least one control system e.g. the master or the control system of the messaging device with the different resolution can adjust the output to the effected messaging device to maintain continuity of the visual message e.g. the flash sequence with the previous and subsequent linked LED displays of other messaging devices . The diodes in the LED array can emit light with a particular luminous intensity. However in some implementations some diodes may be able to dim. The luminous intensity information can be relayed via control systems or associated electronic devices throughout the sequence of connected messaging devices .

Some visual messages may be sent by at least one control system to be output as characters instead of images. This method allows the control system of the messaging device to change font sets without having to redesign a letter image. When characters are output the messaging device can relay font character ID kerning and spacing information to the sequence of connected messaging devices .

A USB port or other interface on the messaging device can allow a compatible cable to connect to another device or power source for example to recharge the messaging device battery . When connected via the USB port to an electronic device or computer the messaging device can be uploaded with visual messages such as flash sequences or can be used as an output device. The messaging device can be wirelessly paired with a music device or directly connected to it via the USB port. Once paired or connected the buttons or other user interfaces on the messaging device can be used to control music playback and volume control on the music device. The messaging device could also be configured via its control system or communication with the control system of an external device to output information like track title and artist name. The LEDs of the LED array could also be controlled or programmed by a corresponding control system or communication with the control system of an external device to mimic a VU meter as the song played for example.

With reference to among others in some implementations the messaging device is incorporated to fit into the armband for example to send an illuminated message or flash sequence from the display panel that includes the LED array that attracts the attention of passersby. For example for a person that exercises outdoors at dusk or in the evening the LED flash pattern of the messaging device can serve to call out his or her presence to nearby runners bikers or vehicle operators. The messaging device can have a form factor that allows it to slide into a pocket of the armband . The form factor of the messaging device for example can be a rectangular flattened bar with repositioned controls to one side. Button dial and switch locations of the interfaces of the messaging device in an armband implementation can be optimized for an active person who needs easy access to controls while performing their activity such as running. The controls e.g. interfaces can be positioned one side of the messaging device to allow one hand operation of the messaging device by a person wearing the messaging device on their arm with an armband. In one implementation the messaging device is configured for disposal in the armband with the display panel facing outward from the armband when a user wears the armband so that passers by can see the visual message.

For example spectators at a sporting event normally might bring a cardboard sign preprinted or drawn with a single message that cheers on their team. With the messaging device in hand carriers can generate messages on the fly for example reacting to a play on the field or cheering on their favorite player. When several fans place their messaging devices together their message seen across their connected displays appears longer to a larger crowd within visual range of the messaging devices. Because of the intense luminosity of the messaging device display the message its carrier s generate s can be seen by more viewers e.g. fans than a traditional cardboard sign. In another example friends or family cheering for runners in a road race or walkers at a charity walk usually communicate with each other with cheers noisemakers or drawn signs. A sideline spectator or fan that is carrying his or her messaging device can send a message to a participant on the course via a single messaging device display or via multiple displays aligned contiguously. In this example the runner or walker can also display a message to the crowd. For example where a runner in a marathon might draw a message like Go Pat on their shirt or arm the messaging device worn in an armband can generate the same continuous scrolling message. Unlike a drawn message the messaging device can also animate the visual image of a runner as part of a flash sequence on the display. The messaging device can also display the participant s overall or lap time to the spectators for example.

In one example a person wandering in a poorly lit outdoor environment can get lost or separated from their group. While a mobile phone may be able to help the lost person contact someone illumination from the display of the mobile phone may be insufficient to alert a searcher to the person s presence. In this example the LED array display on the messaging device can emit more and brighter light than the mobile phone or more consistent light than even the camera flash of a mobile phone. As a result the illuminated messaging device LED array can be seen at greater distances and sharper angles. For example a flash pattern may also convey messages to alert members of a hiking party e.g. by displaying messages like Go left or Bear nearby The messaging device LED array can display messages to others e.g. those within visual range of at least one wearer or carrier of the messaging device . In one implementation the messaging device s battery is configured to provide power solely to the messaging device and its LED array. In other implementations the battery can charge additional devices as well.

In one implementation for example when the messaging device is configured for disposal in the armband the messaging device does not include the recessed area and is not configured as a case to accommodate another electronic device . For example the control system can communicate wirelessly with other computing devices that are not in physical contact with the messaging device to obtain visual messages for display by the display panel . The control system can also obtain visual messages from the data storage units to display by the display panel without or in the absence of wireless communication with other electronic devices . In one implementation the messaging device can be physically connected to other electronic devices without housing them in the recessed area for example via a cable connection to a desktop computer or smartphone to download visual message data corresponding to visual messages. The downloaded data can be stored in the data storage unit for example. The data storage unit can also include a buffer or cache to temporarily store visual messages received from another messaging device or another electronic device .

Referring for example to and where a visual message can be communicated across multiple messaging devices illustrates an example flow diagram for multiple messaging device communication. With reference to one or more control systems and logic units of corresponding electronic devices e.g. smartphone or other computing device the order of linked Flashpod messaging devices can be set with orientation positions on an X Y plane identified . A determination of where a flash sequence is stored can be made. The flash sequence can be stored with the electronic device or in memory of the messaging device. In one example the flash sequence is stored in a messaging device and an interface of the messaging device is actuated . In another example an application of another computing device is executed to send data to the messaging device . In either of these two examples the flash sequence can be initiated or repeated across LED displays of at least one messaging device. The sequence can be displayed in order across more than one messaging device e.g. from right to left . A determination can be made e.g. by at least one messaging device that the sequence has or has not ended . When it is determined that the sequence has ended the LED displays of at least one messaging device can be cleared and the messaging device state can be reset . When it is determined that the sequence has not ended the order or positioning of linked messaging devices can be verified e.g. on the X Y plane . The orientation of the messaging devices can be reset and the flash sequence can initiate repeat or continue .

In some implementations the messaging device can display visual messages as well as communicate with additional messaging devices via a local area network including for example a personal area network or intranet. The portable messaging device can include at least one display panel having an inner surface and an outer surface . The display panel can include the LED array for example facing outward from the outer surface to display visual messages. In some implementations the first lateral side wall the second lateral side wall and the display panel of the messaging device define at least part of the recessed area that can accommodate a smartphone or other electronic device in an example where the messaging device functions as a case. The messaging device can also include a control unit that can communicate with the display panel .

The messaging device can also include at least one lid . The first end of the lid can pivot with respect to an edge of the first lateral side wall e.g. during opening and closing of the lid and the second end of the lid can contact an edge of the second lateral side wall e.g. with the lid in a closed position. The messaging device can also include at least one connector disposed in an inner wall of the base panel to connect with electronic devices disposed in the recessed area .

In some implementations the messaging device includes one LED array on a back panel e.g. the outer surface of the display panel and at least one other LED array on a different surface of the messaging device such as the outer surface of the first lateral side wall or the outer surface of the second side wall or an outer surface of the base panel . In one implementation the control unit accesses visual message data corresponding to the visual message from at least one data storage unit of the messaging device . This data can also be obtained by the control unit from a data storage unit that is external to the messaging device . In one implementation the control unit can communicate with a processing or other logic unit of another electronic device to select the visual message from a data storage unit of the electronic device via the electronic device from another data storage unit that is not part of the electronic device such as a server in communication with the electronic device via a mobile phone communication network or an Internet connection.

The method can provide visual messages for display . For example the control system can provide at least a portion of a visual message to the LED array for display by the messaging device . In one implementation the method detects a second messaging device . For example an interface of one messaging device can detect another messaging device within a range of tens of meters via Bluetooth or other wireless communication protocols. In some implementations the method determines a hierarchy between multiple detected messaging devices . For example the control system of one or more messaging device can determine the locations of multiple messaging devices and based on the locations the control system can identify an order the messaging devices in which to display a static e.g. still or dynamic e.g. scrolling visual message across more than one messaging device .

As part of the method for example the control system can provide an indication of this order or hierarchy to control systems of at least one other messaging device that has been detected or that forms part of the group of messaging devices that collectively display the visual message . The method can also provide at least part of the visual message to the second portable messaging device . For example the control unit can provide at least part of the visual message from a corresponding data storage unit to a second messaging device via wireless communication between messaging devices .

With general reference to the control system can include the general architecture of a computer system that may be employed to implement the operations discussed herein. The control system can be used to operate the messaging device of which it is a part as well as additional messaging devices . The control system can include one or more processors communicatively coupled to data storage units one or more power supplies one or more sensors one or more interfaces one or more LED arrays or other displays and one or more electronic devices .

In the control system the data storage units may include any computer readable storage media including non transient and tangible storage media and may store computer instructions such as processor executable instructions for implementing the various functionalities described herein for respective systems as well as any data relating thereto generated thereby or received via the communications interface . Referring to the control system the control unit can include the memory data storage units to store visual messages e.g. visual message data as well as the information used to determine hierarchies between multiple messaging devices or to detect multiple messaging devices . The processor can execute instructions stored in the data storage units and can read from or write to the data storage units information processed and or generated pursuant to execution of the instructions.

The processor can be communicatively coupled to or control the communications interface to transmit or receive various information pursuant to execution of instructions. For example the communications interface may be coupled to a wired or wireless network bus or other communication means and may therefore allow the control system to transmit information to or receive information from other messaging devices or from electronic devices e.g. other computer systems . The interfaces can facilitate information flow between the components of the control system . In some implementations the communications interface can e.g. via hardware components or software components provide a website as an access portal to access visual messages from electronic devices .

The interface can allow information visual messages or instructions regarding hierarchy determinations to be transmitted received viewed or otherwise perceived in connection with execution of instructions. The interface may be provided for example to allow a user to make manual adjustments make selections enter data or other information or interact in any of a variety of manners with the processor during execution of the instructions.

Implementations of the subject matter and the operations described in this specification can be implemented at least in part by one or more control systems in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. Implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer programs i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on computer storage medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. The program instructions can be encoded on an artificially generated propagated signal e.g. a machine generated electrical optical or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus for execution by a data processing apparatus. A computer storage medium can be or be included in a computer readable storage device a computer readable storage substrate a random or serial access memory array or device or a combination of one or more of them. Moreover while a computer storage medium is not a propagated signal a computer storage medium can be a source or destination of computer program instructions encoded in an artificially generated propagated signal. The computer storage medium can also be or be included in one or more separate physical components or media e.g. multiple CDs disks or other storage devices .

The operations described in this specification can be implemented as operations performed by a data processing apparatus on data stored on one or more computer readable storage devices or received from other sources.

The terms data processing apparatus or computing device computer module electronic device or computing device encompasses apparatuses devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer a system on a chip or multiple ones or combinations of the foregoing. The apparatuses can include special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit . The apparatus can also include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system a cross platform runtime environment a virtual machine or a combination of one or more of them. The apparatus and execution environment can realize various different computing model infrastructures such as web services distributed computing and grid computing infrastructures. The control unit or its components can include or share one or more data processing apparatuses computing devices or processors.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in a programming language and deployed as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine object or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one messaging device or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network. A computer program can be executed by the control unit or its components.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform actions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatuses can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of a digital computer. Generally a processor can receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The elements of a computer include a processor for performing actions in accordance with instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer can also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Moreover a computer can be embedded in another device e.g. the messaging device a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile audio or video player a game console a Global Positioning System GPS receiver or a portable storage device e.g. a universal serial bus USB flash drive for example. Devices suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device of the LED array or another display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube plasma or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying visual messages. Interfaces can provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input. In addition a computer can interact with a user by sending or receiving data from the messaging device .

The control system can include clients and servers e.g. masters and drones . A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In some implementations a server transmits data to a client device e.g. for purposes of receiving or displaying visual messages .

The implementation details described herein should not be construed as limitations on the scope of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular implementations of the systems and methods described herein. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate implementations can also be implemented in combination in a single embodiment or implementation. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single implementation can also be implemented in multiple implementations separately or in any suitable sub combination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a sub combination or variation of a sub combination.

While operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In some cases the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. In addition the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results.

In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing by one or more control systems may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the implementations described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all implementations and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products. For example control system can be a single module or a logic device having one or more processing circuits.

Having now described some illustrative implementations it is apparent that the foregoing is illustrative and not limiting having been presented by way of example. In particular although many of the examples presented herein involve specific combinations of method acts or system elements those acts and those elements may be combined in other ways to accomplish the same objectives. Acts elements and features discussed in connection with one implementation are not intended to be excluded from a similar role in other implementations or implementations.

The phraseology and terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting. The use of including comprising having containing involving characterized by characterized in that and variations thereof herein is meant to encompass the items listed thereafter equivalents thereof and additional items as well as alternate implementations consisting of the items listed thereafter exclusively. In one implementation the systems and methods described herein consist of one each combination of more than one or all of the described elements acts or components.

Any references to implementations or elements or acts of the systems and methods herein referred to in the singular may also embrace implementations including a plurality of these elements and any references in plural to any implementation or element or act herein may also embrace implementations including only a single element. References in the singular or plural form are not intended to limit the presently disclosed systems or methods their components acts or elements to single or plural configurations. References to any act or element being based on any information act or element may include implementations where the act or element is based at least in part on any information act or element.

Any implementation disclosed herein may be combined with any other implementation or embodiment and references to an implementation some implementation an alternate implementation various implementation one implementation or the like are not necessarily mutually exclusive and are intended to indicate that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the implementation may be included in at least one implementation or embodiment. Such terms as used herein are not necessarily all referring to the same implementation. Any implementation may be combined with any other implementation inclusively or exclusively in any manner consistent with the aspects and implementations disclosed herein.

References to or may be construed as inclusive so that any terms described using or may indicate any of a single more than one and all of the described terms.

Where technical features in the drawings detailed description or any claim are followed by reference signs the reference signs have been included for the sole purpose of increasing the intelligibility of the drawings detailed description and claims. Accordingly neither the reference identifiers nor their absence have any limiting effect on the scope of any claim elements.

The systems and methods described herein may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the characteristics thereof. For example in addition or as an alternative to LED arrays other displays such as monitors plasma screens or LCD displays can display the visual messages on one or more messaging devices. The foregoing implementations are illustrative rather than limiting of the described systems and methods. Scope of the systems and methods described herein is thus indicated by the appended claims rather than the foregoing description and changes that come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are embraced therein.

