---

title: Controlling traffic transmissions to manage cellular radio resource utilization
abstract: Techniques control traffic transmissions to manage radio resource utilization. When content is being streamed to user equipment (UE) and is at least initially intended to be streamed in real time at a constant bitrate, a communication management component can determine whether the content being transmitted to the UE can be delayed, instead of being transmitted in real time. In response to determining that the content can be delayed, the communication management component can facilitate buffering data and periodically streaming the data to the UE in data bursts to reduce use of UE power and radio resources. When transmitting a visual image to a UE, the communication management component can adjust resolution of a visual image to correspond to screen dimensions of the UE based on information indicating screen dimensions of the UE that can be received from the UE.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09654950&OS=09654950&RS=09654950
owner: AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I, L.P.
number: 09654950
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160114
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to each of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 528 423 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 264 872 filed Jun. 20 2012 and entitled Controlling Traffic Transmissions To Manage Cellular Radio Resource Utilization which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 498 823 filed Jun. 20 2011 and entitled Best Practices OS Support For Smartphone Applications the entireties of which applications are hereby incorporated herein by reference. This application also is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 164 112 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 220 066 filed Jun. 20 2011 and entitled Bundling Data Transfers And Employing Tail Optimization Protocol To Manage Cellular Radio Resource Utilization the entirety of which application is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

This disclosure relates to network communications e.g. to controlling traffic transmissions to manage cellular radio resource utilization.

A wireless communication system can be utilized to provide wireless access to various communication services e.g. voice video data messaging content broadcast etc. for users of the system. Wireless communication systems can operate according to a variety of network specifications and or standards such as Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE High Speed Packet Access HSPA . These specifications and or standards use different modulation techniques such as Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Multi Carrier CDMA MC CDMA Single Carrier CDMA SC CDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access OF DMA Single Carrier Frequency Division Multiple Access SC FDMA and so on.

Users can use communication devices e.g. mobile phone electronic tablet or pad etc. to access a wireless communication network to for example perceive e.g. watch and or listen to a program being streamed to the communication device. In wireless communication networks e.g. cellular networks when a program is being streamed continuously streaming traffic of the program at a constant low bitrate can cause significant inefficiencies in resource utilization as the communication device can be constantly using the wireless communication channel e.g. dedicated channel DCH whose available bandwidth can be significantly underutilized due to the relatively low constant bitrate streaming.

Another issue relating to wireless communications to communication devices involves image sizes in relation to high resolution images. Different communication devices can have different screen dimensions. When content that includes a visual image is being downloaded from a server to a communication device the visual image may have a relatively high resolution which can result in transmission of a relatively large amount of data to the communication device. However the communication device receiving the content including the high resolution visual image may have a relatively small screen size. As a result transmission of the relatively large amount of data representing the high resolution visual image can be wasteful and unnecessary since the screen size of the communication device is too small to fully display the high resolution visual image in its original size.

The above described description is merely intended to provide a contextual overview of wireless communication networks and is not intended to be exhaustive.

The following presents a simplified overview of various aspects of the disclosed subject matter in order to provide a basic understanding of such aspects. This is not an extensive overview of all contemplated aspects and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements nor delineate the scope of such aspects. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the disclosed subject matter in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description of the disclosed subject matter that is presented later. It will also be appreciated that the detailed description may include additional or alternative embodiments beyond those described in this overview.

The disclosed subject matter can include a system that can include at least one memory storing computer executable instructions and at least one processor communicatively coupled to the at least one memory that facilitates execution of the computer executable instructions. The at least one processor facilitates the execution of the computer executable instructions to at least determine whether it is permissible for content to be received by a user equipment using a plurality of separate data bursts comprising respective portions of the content without using a continuous stream at a constant bitrate and receive the respective portions of the content in respective data bursts of the plurality of separate data bursts in response to a determination that it is permissible for the content to be received by the user equipment using the plurality of separate data bursts comprising the respective portions of the content instead of reception of the content using the continuous stream at the constant bitrate.

The disclosed subject matter also can include a method comprising determining by a system including at least one processor whether it is acceptable to communicate content to a user equipment from a communication device using a plurality of separate data bursts comprising respective portions of the content instead of communicating the content using a continuous stream at a constant bitrate and communicating by the system the respective portions of the content to the user equipment using respective data bursts of the plurality of separate data bursts in response to determining that it is acceptable to communicate the content to the user equipment from the communication device using the plurality of separate data bursts comprising the respective portions of the content instead of communicating the content using the continuous stream at the constant bitrate.

The disclosed subject matter further can comprise a system that can include at least one memory storing computer executable instructions and at least one processor communicatively coupled to the at least one memory that facilitates execution of the computer executable instructions. The at least one processor facilitates the execution of the computer executable instructions to at least determine whether it is acceptable to transmit content to a user equipment using a plurality of separate data bursts comprising respective portions of the content instead of transmission of the content using a continuous stream at a constant bitrate and transmit the respective portions of the content to the user equipment using respective data bursts of the plurality of separate data bursts in response to a determination that it is acceptable to transmit the content to the user equipment using the plurality of separate data bursts comprising the respective portions of the content instead of transmission of the content using the continuous stream at the constant bitrate.

The above overview is merely intended as a preface of the more detailed description that follows. The following part of the detailed description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the disclosed subject matter. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the disclosed subject matter may be employed. The disclosed subject matter is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and distinctive features of the disclosed subject matter will become apparent from the following part of the detailed description of the disclosed subject matter when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

Users can use communication devices e.g. mobile phone electronic tablet or pad etc. to access a wireless communication network to for example perceive e.g. watch and or listen to a program being streamed to a communication device. In wireless communication networks e.g. cellular networks when a program is being streamed continuously streaming traffic of the program at a constant low bitrate can cause significant inefficiencies in utilization of radio resources and other types of resources e.g. power as the communication device can be constantly using the wireless communication channel e.g. dedicated channel DCH whose available bandwidth can be significantly underutilized due to the relatively low constant bitrate streaming.

Another issue relating to wireless communications to communication devices involves image sizes in relation to high resolution images. Different communication devices can have different screen dimensions or display characteristics. For instance when content that includes a visual image is being downloaded from a server to a communication device the visual image may have a relatively high resolution which can result in transmission of a relatively large amount of data to the communication device. However the communication device receiving the content including the high resolution visual image may have a relatively small screen size. As a result transmission of the relatively large amount of data representing the high resolution visual image can be wasteful and unnecessary since the screen size of the communication device is too small to fully display the high resolution visual image in its original size.

To that end techniques for controlling traffic e.g. voice or data traffic transmissions to manage radio resource e.g. cellular radio resource utilization are presented herein. In accordance with various implementations the disclosed subject matter can use bursty streaming of traffic control image size of images employ efficient scheduling of traffic use fast dormancy and or use a tail optimization protocol TOP to facilitate efficiently managing radio resource utilization in relation to communications associated with user equipment UE e.g. mobile phone electronic tablet or pad etc. .

A UE can include a UE communication management component that can manage traffic communications between the UE and other communication devices e.g. server computer etc. associated with a communication network. In some implementations another communication device e.g. server computer etc. can include a communication management component that can communication coordinate and or negotiate with the UE communication management component to facilitate managing radio resource utilization associated with the UE. When content e.g. video or audio content is being streamed to the UE and is at least initially or tentatively intended to be streamed in real time at a constant bitrate the UE communication management component and or the communication management component of the other communication device can determine whether the content being transmitted to the UE can be delayed instead of being transmitted in real time. In response to the UE communication management component and or the communication management component determining that the content can be delayed the communication management component can facilitate buffering data e.g. by storing the buffered data in a queue and or buffer component and periodically streaming e.g. bursty streaming portions of the data to the UE in data bursts to reduce use of UE power and radio resources.

In some implementations the UE communication management component can coordinate with the communication management component to schedule data transfers associated with the UE to group e.g. bundle batch the data transfers associated with the streamed content and or other data transfers e.g. delay sensitive data transfers or other data transfers associated with a different application s or server s to communicate them to the UE in a single data burst instead of communicating these data transfers in multiple data bursts. The UE communication management component also can utilize fast dormancy and or the TOP protocol to optimize tails and the scheduling of tail removals at the connection level e.g. at the end of a data transfer to facilitate further improving e.g. reducing minimizing optimizing etc. radio resource utilization associated with the UE.

In some implementations when a visual image is to be transmitted to the UE by the communication device the UE communication management component can transmit information relating to the UE that can provide an indication of the dimensions of the screen size or other display screen characteristics associated with the UE to the other communication device. The communication management component associated with the other communication device can analyze the information relating to the UE and based at least in part on the analysis results can identify the screen dimensions and or other display screen characteristics of the UE. The communication management component can adjust resolution and or other display characteristics of the visual image to correspond to screen dimensions and or other display characteristics of the UE based at least in part on the received information relating to the UE. The other communication device can transmit the adjusted visual image and or other associated content to the UE for presentation e.g. display by the UE.

If the UE communication management component determines that the transfer of the adjusted visual image is not time sensitive and can be scheduled as desired e.g. delayed if desired or determines that there is another data transfer that can have its transfer time adjusted to be sent in a same data burst as the adjusted visual image the UE communication management component can schedule the data transfer of the visual image along with other data transfers to group the transfer of the visual image and the other data transfers e.g. time sensitive data transfers or other data transfers associated with a different application s or server s in a single data burst to transfer these data transfers to the UE via a communication channel being utilized by the UE instead of transferring these data transfers in multiple data bursts. The UE communication management component also can utilize fast dormancy and or the TOP protocol to optimize tails and the scheduling of tail removals at the connection level e.g. at the end of this data transfer e.g. single data burst to further improve radio resource utilization associated with the UE.

Various aspects of the disclosed subject matter are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects.

Referring now to the drawings illustrates a block diagram of an example system that can control data transfers associated with a communication device e.g. UE to facilitate managing radio resource utilization in accordance with various aspects and embodiments described herein. The system can comprise a UE e.g. mobile and or wireless communication device such as a mobile phone e.g. 3GPP Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS phone personal digital assistant PDA computer set top box electronic notebook electronic pad or tablet portable electronic gaming device etc. that can operate and communicate in a communication network environment. In an aspect the UE can be communicatively connected via a wireless communication connection s to a communication network via an AP .

In an aspect as the UE is moved through a wireless communication network environment at various times the UE can be connected e.g. wirelessly connected to one of a plurality of APs e.g. macro or cellular AP femto AP pico AP Wi Fi AP Wi Max AP etc. such as an AP that can operate in the wireless communication network environment. An AP e.g. can serve a specified coverage area to facilitate communication by the UE or other UEs in the wireless communication network environment. The AP can serve a respective coverage cell e.g. macrocell femtocell picocell etc. that can cover a respective specified area and the AP can service mobile wireless devices such as UE located in the respective area covered by the respective cell where such coverage can be achieved via a wireless link e.g. uplink UL downlink DL . When an attachment attempt is successful the UE can be served by the AP and incoming voice and data traffic can be paged and routed to the UE through the AP and outgoing voice and data traffic from the UE can be paged and routed through the AP to other communication devices e.g. another UE in the communication network environment. In an aspect the UE can be connected and can communicate wirelessly using virtually any desired wireless technology including for example cellular Wi Fi Wi Max wireless local area networks WLAN etc.

The communication network e.g. Third Generation 3G Fourth Generation 4G or x Generation xG network where x can be virtually any desired integer or real value can facilitate wireless connection with the UE via the AP and facilitate communication by or between the UE and another UE s or other type of communication device s e.g. computer server e.g. application server content server that can be provide video content audio content and or other content comprising other types of information notification system or server etc. etc. such as communication device associated with the communication network in the communication network environment. The communication network e.g. a core network or network comprising a core network and or IP based network can facilitate routing voice and data communications between a communication device s e.g. UE and other communication devices e.g. another UE a server etc. associated with the communication network in the communication network environment.

The communication network also can allocate resources to the UE or other UEs in the communication network convert or enforce protocols establish and enforce Quality of Service QoS for the UEs provide applications or services in the communication network translate signals and or perform other desired functions to facilitate system interoperability and communication in the communication network e.g. wireless portion of the communication network or wireline portion of the communication network . The communication network further can include desired components such as routers nodes switches interfaces controllers etc. that can facilitate communication of data between communication devices in the communication network environment.

In accordance with various aspects and embodiments the UE can comprise a UE communication management component that can desirably e.g. optimally acceptably permissibly etc. control communication of data between the UE and another communication device s such as communication device . The UE communication management component can be part of or can operate in conjunction with the operating system OS of the UE and or an application s to facilitate controlling communication scheduling and or batching of data transfers associated with the UE .

In accordance with various aspects and embodiments the communication device can include a communication management component that can coordinate with the UE communication management component to desirably control communication of data between the UE and the communication device or another communication device s . The UE communication management component can be part of or can operate in conjunction with the OS of the communication device and or an application s of the communication device to facilitate controlling communication scheduling and or batching of data transfers associated with the UE .

In certain instances the UE can request information e.g. video or audio content from the communication device . The communication device may ordinarily communicate the requested information to the UE via a communication channel e.g. a dedicated channel DCH that can be in a high power active communication state using a constant bitrate. However communicating the requested information via the communication channel using a constant bitrate can be an inefficient use of radio resources. The UE communication management component and the communication management component can operate to efficiently communicate the requested information to the UE to desirably e.g. optimally acceptably etc. manage radio resource utilization associated with the UE .

In some implementations when information e.g. video or audio content is being streamed to the UE and is at least initially or tentatively intended to be streamed in real time at a constant bitrate the UE communication management component and or the communication management component of the other communication device can determine whether the content being transmitted to the UE can be delayed for a period of time e.g. 10 seconds 20 seconds 30 seconds . . . 1 minute . . . and sent to the UE in separate bursty streams e.g. separate data bursts for example without undesired or unacceptable disruption of the presentation of the information by the UE instead of being transmitted in real time to the UE for presentation in accordance with one or more defined traffic communication criterion. The one or more defined traffic communication criterion can relate to and or be based at least in part on for example network policies of the communication network type of subscription the UE or associated user has with the wireless service provider type of subscription the UE or associated user has in relation to the content being provided by the communication device user preferences of the user of the UE user preferences or content provider policies associated with the communication device information in a user profile associated with the user and or UE data transfer parameters TOP parameters etc.

For example a content provider policy associated with the communication device providing the content can specify that content to be streamed to a wireless communication device such as the UE can be delayed and transmitted in separate bursty streams at specified times e.g. at regular or varying time intervals instead of streaming the content to the UE in real time. As another example a particular subscription for wireless services associated with the UE and or user of the UE can specify that transmission of content to the UE from a content provider e.g. communication device can be delayed and transmitted in separate bursty streams instead of being communicated in real time via a communication channel at a constant bitrate. As still another example a user associated with the UE can select a user preference indicating that transmission of content to the UE from a content provider e.g. communication device can be delayed and transmitted in separate bursty streams instead of being communicated in real time via a communication channel at a constant bitrate.

Based at least in part on e.g. in response to the example content provider policy the example subscription associated with the UE and or UE user or the example user preference of the UE user the communication management component can control transmission of the content to have the communication device transmit respective portions of the content in respective data bursts to the UE at specified times. To facilitate controlling transmission of the content to transmit the respective portions of the content in respective data bursts to the UE at specified times the communication management component can buffer the data associated with the content e.g. in a queue and or buffer component until such data is scheduled to be transferred to the UE . The UE communication management component can coordinate the scheduling of the transmission of the respective data bursts with the communication management component to have at least some of the data transfers of respective portions of content bundled together with other data transfers e.g. periodic and or time sensitive data transfers to communicate the bundled data transfers in a single data burst instead of having these data transfers sent in separate data bursts. For instance the UE communication management component can schedule data transfers to bundle a data transfer of content from the communication device with one or more other data transfers associated with the communication device and or another communication device e.g. a server associated with another application to have these bundled transfers transmitted to the UE in a single data burst. In some implementations the UE communication management component also can utilize fast dormancy and or the TOP protocol to desirably e.g. acceptably optimally etc. manage the tail time associated with these data transfers to reduce the amount of tail time desirably manage state transitions by the UE and reduce use of wireless resources and power consumption by the UE .

In some implementations when a visual image is to be transmitted to the UE by the communication device the UE communication management component can transmit information relating to the UE that can provide an indication of the dimensions of the screen size or other display screen characteristics associated with the UE to the communication device . For example the UE communication management component can insert such information e.g. display screen dimensions in pixels information indicating make and model of communication device device identifier username of UE user account or registration number associated with the UE and or associated UE user etc. from which the communication management component can derive the display screen dimensions of the UE etc. relating to the UE in a header field associated with the request e.g. a designated or special hypertext transfer protocol HTTP request header field for the visual image. The communication management component associated with the communication device can analyze such information relating to the UE and based at least in part on the analysis results can identify the screen dimensions and or other display screen characteristics of the UE . The communication management component can adjust resolution and or other display characteristics of the visual image to correspond to the identified screen dimensions and or other display characteristics of the UE . The communication device can transmit the adjusted visual image and or other associated content to the UE for presentation e.g. display by the UE .

If the UE communication management component determines that the transfer of the adjusted visual image is not time sensitive and can be scheduled as desired e.g. delayed by a certain amount of time if desired or determines that there is another data transfer that can have its transfer time adjusted to be sent in a same data burst as the adjusted visual image the UE communication management component can schedule the data transfer of the adjusted visual image along with one or more other data transfers to group the transfer of the adjusted visual image and the other data transfer s e.g. time sensitive data transfer s or other data transfer s associated with a different application s or server s in a single data burst to transfer these data transfers to the UE via a communication channel e.g. DCH being utilized by the UE instead of transferring these data transfers in multiple data bursts. The UE communication management component also can utilize fast dormancy and or the TOP protocol to desirably e.g. acceptably optimally etc. manage the tail time associated with these data transfers to reduce the amount of tail time desirably manage state transitions by the UE and reduce use of wireless resources and power consumption by the UE .

The UE can include a UE communication management component that can desirably e.g. optimally acceptably etc. control communication of data between the UE and another communication device s such as communication device as more fully disclosed herein. The communication device can comprise a communication management component that can coordinate with the UE communication management component to desirably control communication of data between the UE and the communication device or another communication device s . The UE communication network AP communication device UE communication management component and communication management component each can be the same as or similar to or can comprise the same or similar functionality as respective components e.g. respectively named components such as described herein with regard to the disclosed subject matter.

The UE can contain utilize and or be associated with a plurality of applications including application and application that respectively can perform functions and or provide services corresponding to the respective applications. For example application can be an application that can facilitate providing news content to the UE and application can be a media content application that can facilitate providing video and audio content to the UE . Application can be associated with an application server which can be connected to the communication network via a wireline or wireless communication connection and can provide news content to the UE as desired for example by the UE user. Application can be associated with the communication device which can be a media content server that can provide video content audio content visual images etc. to the UE as desired for example by the UE user.

In accordance with various aspects the UE communication management component and communication management component can coordinate with each other to determine whether streamed content can be delayed for a desired amount of time instead of being delivered to the UE in real time and transmitted from the communication device to the UE using a series of data bursts comprising respective portions of the content. The UE communication management component and communication management component also can coordinate with each other to control scheduling of the transmission of the data bursts of the portions of the content in relation to transmission of other data transfers e.g. periodic and or time sensitive data transfers or another type s of data transfer to the UE from the communication device and or the application server . For example the UE communication management component can schedule or request to schedule a transfer of a portion of content from the communication device to have it bundled in a same data burst as a periodic data transfer being sent by the application server to the UE . The communication management component can facilitate transmitting the data transfer of the portion of content within the time interval of the data burst that includes the periodic data transfer from the application server to the UE . This bundling of data transfers within a same data burst instead of sending the data transfers separately in separate data bursts can facilitate reducing the amount of radio resources used by the UE the amount of power consumed by the UE and the amount of resources used by the communication network AP and or other components associated with the system . In some implementations the UE communication management component also can utilize fast dormancy and or the TOP protocol to desirably e.g. acceptably optimally etc manage the tail time associated with these data transfers to reduce the amount of tail time desirably manage state transitions by the UE and reduce use of wireless resources and power consumption by the UE .

There are a number of different types of periodic transfers with which a bursty stream of content and or a visual image e.g. adjusted visual image can be bundled into a single data burst. One type of periodic transfer can include a keep alive data transfer e.g. comprising a keep alive data packet that can be periodically sent by the UE to maintain a communication connection on a communication channel. Another type of period data transfer can be a data transfer that relates to measurement of consumption or user tracking of consumption of an entity s content e.g. in relation to an application so that the entity can have information regarding how long the UE user has been viewing the entity s web page or viewing listening to its video audio content. Still another example of a periodic transfer is a logging data transfer which can communicate logging information to a server e.g. application server such as application server wherein the logging information can indicate what the UE user was consuming during the period of time to which the logging data transfer relates. Yet another example of a periodic data transfer can relate to advertisements that can be periodically communicated between an application server e.g. application server communication device also can be an application server and the UE for example when an application e.g. application application is open. Another example of a periodic data transfer can be a pull data transfer relating to an application wherein the pull data transfer can be periodically transmitted by the UE to an application server to see if information is available or to try to obtain information from the application server. There are other types of periodic data transfers that are not included herein for reasons of brevity however all types of periodic data transfers are contemplated by and are considered part of the subject specification.

The periodic data transfers are data transfers that are communicated between the UE and the communication network and or servers such as application servers e.g. communicatively connected to the communication network on a periodic time basis for example while an application e.g. application application is opened on and or by the UE . Periodicity is a term that means or relates to the period or amount of time between two periodic data transfers e.g. associated with an application and a periodicity parameter can be one type of data transfer parameter for an application. For example one application e.g. application can have a periodic data transfer that has a periodicity of 5 minutes wherein except as otherwise specified by other data transfer parameters e.g. jitter the application requests that a data transfer occur every 5 minutes while another application e.g. application can have a periodicity of 30 minutes wherein this other application requests that a data transfer occur every 30 minutes. In an aspect if it is desired to have a one time data transfer the periodicity parameter of the data transfer can be set to 0 seconds and as a result the data transfer will be executed one time in accordance with the other data transfer parameters e.g. transfer start time parameter .

In another aspect to facilitate improving operations relating to data transfers by the UE it can be desirable to specify a longer periodicity time as opposed to a shorter periodicity time as the longer periodicity time can result in less periodic data transfers associated with an application which can result in less data bursts associated with data transfers associated with an application. The time length of the periodicity can be set in accordance with the defined traffic communication criterion s and for example can be set by the application developer and or updated and modified via an application update.

Another type of data transfer parameter can be a jitter parameter. The jitter parameter can specify the amount of time before and or after the nominal transfer start time which can be based at least in part on the periodicity parameter the data transfer can be communicated. This is essentially the amount of leeway e.g. the margin of deviation from the scheduled time e.g. nominal transfer start time the application is able to accept in relation to communication of the data transfer. For instance if a data transfer associated with an application has a nominal transfer start time at time t and the jitter parameter is 30 seconds the data transfer can occur at any time from t 30 seconds through t 30 seconds.

In yet another aspect to facilitate improving operations relating to data transfers by the UE it can be desirable to specify a longer jitter time as opposed to a shorter jitter time as the longer jitter time can result in the UE communication management component having more flexibility in scheduling data transfers that have a longer jitter time which can result in more opportunities to bundle data transfers together and consequently result in less data bursts associated with data transfers. The time length of the jitter parameter can be set in accordance with the defined traffic communication criterion s and for example can be set by the application developer and or updated and modified via an application update.

Still another type of data transfer parameter can be a transfer start time parameter also referred to herein as transferstarttime . The transfer start time parameter can specify a time t that can be the desired or nominal start time to perform the data transfer. The transfer start time parameter can be based at least in part on the periodicity parameter. For example if the periodicity parameter is set to 5 minutes and the last data transfer relating to the application was performed at t 5 minutes the transfer start time parameter can be set to t.

Yet another type of data transfer parameter can be a call back parameter also referred to herein as callback . The call back parameter can be set to a value e.g. name alphanumeric value of a function that is desired to be called and or executed in relation to the data transfer. Some examples of functions include a keep alive function that can be called or executed to facilitate performing a keep alive data transfer to maintain a communication connection or an advertisement function that can be called periodically to facilitate performing a data transfer relating to advertisements.

In an aspect when a first data transfer which can be a periodic data transfer or one time data transfer associated with an application e.g. application is to be scheduled for transmission by the UE communication management component e.g. based at least in part on the periodicity of that application the UE communication management component can analyze data transfer parameters e.g. a jitter parameter a periodicity parameter and or a transfer start time parameter associated with the first data transfer and also can analyze respective data transfer parameters of one or more other data transfers respectively associated with one or more other applications e.g. application in relation to the data transfer parameters associated with the first data transfer to determine whether any of the one or more other data transfers can be transmitted during the same data burst as the first data transfer to mitigate e.g. reduce minimize the number of data bursts communicated to send all of these data transfers analyzed by the UE communication management component and or mitigate the number or type of communication state transitions associated with the UE in performing such data transfers. Depending in part on the type of data transfer e.g. periodic aperiodic the other data transfers can be associated with the same type or different types of data transfer parameters as the first data transfer. For example for an aperiodic data transfer e.g. audio content there can be a transfer start time which can be the time the aperiodic data transfer is to be performed but no jitter parameter or a jitter parameter equal to 0 seconds to indicate that the aperiodic data transfer is to be performed at the transfer start time.

In an aspect to facilitate identifying respective data transfer parameters and bundling of data transfers the system can employ a desired data transfer Application Programming Interface API that can identify or specify the data transfer parameters associated with an application s . The data transfer API can be initialized by an application e.g. application application and can be called for example when the application is opened up e.g. activated on the UE . The data transfer API also can specify a periodicity parameter to indicate the periodic times e.g. every 5 minutes that the data transfer API is to be run and an associated specified data transfer is to be executed. The data transfer API can be installed on the UE when the associated application e.g. application application is installed on the UE or at another desired time and can be updated and modified e.g. modified to add or change data transfer parameters modified to add or change functions as desired. The UE communication management component can utilize the data transfer APIs of respective applications to facilitate identifying the data transfer parameters associated with respective data transfers associated with the applications and facilitate controlling the scheduling and bundling of data transfers in accordance with the defined traffic communication criterion s .

In some implementations the data transfer API can be RegPeriodicTolerantTransfer periodicity transferstarttime callback jitter wherein such data transfer API can be used to register periodic tolerant transfers of data in accordance with the data transfer parameters including periodicity parameter transfer start time parameter call back parameter and jitter parameter contained in RegPeriodicTolerantTransfer periodicity transferstarttime callback jitter . It is to be appreciated that RegPeriodicTolerantTransfer periodicity transferstarttime callback jitter is but one example of a data transfer API and in accordance with other implementations other types of data transfer APIs e.g. having different data transfer parameters having a different data transfer API name etc. can be utilized in accordance with the disclosed subject matter and all such data transfer APIs are contemplated by and are part of the disclosed subject matter.

The UE communication management component can employ fast dormancy and TOP to efficiently manage the tail time e.g. reduce tail time associated with these four data transfers as disclosed herein. The tail time can be an amount of time that network radio resources can continue to be allocated to the UE for instance to have the UE remain in a higher communication state e.g. DCH state in case there is going to be further communication of data between the UE and the communication network . One purpose of the tail time is to facilitate controlling e.g. to mitigate the number of state transitions of the UE due to the overhead incurred by the communication network and UE each time there is a state transition by the UE . However as the UE is continuing to utilize network radio resources during the tail time it can be desirable for the UE to actively release the network radio resources using fast dormancy to signal the communication network e.g. to signal a radio network controller RNC associated with the communication network to transition the UE from the high power active communication state to the idle state wherein in the idle state there will be no network radio resources allocated to the UE and the UE will consume little or no power in relation to the association of UE with the communication network .

The system and its respective components and or other associated entities can implement TOP which is an application layer protocol that can bridge the gap between applications and fast dormancy support provided by the communication network . In accordance with one aspect TOP can be implemented at UE via modifications to the OS e.g. software update and or associated applications taking into account the implication of multiple concurrent communication connections and or multiple concurrent communications using fast dormancy.

In some implementations with regard to managing a data burst comprising one or more data transfers the UE communication management component can identify that no other communication is expected over a certain period of time. Based at least in part on this analysis the UE communication management component can determine that the tail time after a particular data transfer as part of the data burst is unnecessary since there are no communications expected by the UE during the tail time. As a result in accordance with TOP the UE communication management component can determine that fast dormancy is to be implemented. Accordingly the UE communication management component can generate a tail termination signal and can transmit the tail termination signal to the communication network e.g. to the RNC associated with the communication network and the communication network can terminate the tail by immediately transitioning the UE from the high power active communication state to the idle state wherein in the idle state the UE will no longer have network radio resources allocated to it by the communication network until another data communication is desired and resources are again allocated. The system by employing fast dormancy in accordance with TOP can thereby further reduce the use e.g. unnecessary use of network radio resources by the UE which can reduce power consumption by the UE and also can free up network radio resources for other UEs associated with the communication network .

Referring briefly to illustrated is a diagram of an example UMTS network that can facilitate desired operation of a UE in accordance with various aspects and embodiments. The UMTS network can be employed to facilitate the scheduling and or bundling of data transfers associated with communication devices e.g. UEs the implementation of fast dormancy and TOP and or other techniques for managing operations of a UE e.g. the operating state of a UE in a communication network environment.

As illustrated by the UMTS network can include three subsystems UEs the UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN and the Core Network CN . As used in UMTS network UEs can be mobile handsets that interact with end users and or any other suitable device s . In one example UTRAN can enable connectivity between UE and CN . UTRAN can include two components base stations and Radio Network Controllers RNCs which provide control functionalities for multiple base stations . In one example a substantial number of the features of UTRAN e.g. packet scheduling radio resource control handover control etc. can be implemented at the RNC . In another example the centralized CN can be regarded as the backbone of the cellular network and can serve as an interface to other networks such as an Internet Protocol IP based network e.g. Internet wherein the CN and IP based network can be part of a communication network .

Returning briefly to and in the context of UMTS network the term radio resource as used herein can refer to the Wideband CDMA WCDMA code space the UTRAN transmission power and or other factors that are potential bottlenecks of the network. To efficiently utilize the limited radio resources the UMTS radio resource control RRC protocol can introduce a state machine associated with each UE e.g. UE UE . By way of example the RRC state machine can utilize three RRC states IDLE CELL FACH and CELL DCH as shown by diagrams and in .

Referring to as shown in diagrams and IDLE can be the default state of the UE when the UE is turned on. In this state the UE e.g. has not established an RRC connection with the RNC thus no radio resource is allocated and the UE cannot transfer any data.

In the CELL DCH state also referred to herein as a high power active communication state or DCH state the RRC connection is established and a UE e.g. can be allocated dedicated DCH transport channels in both DL e.g. RNC to UE and UL e.g. UE to RNC. The DCH state can allow the UE to fully utilize the radio resources for user data transmission. In one example when a large number of UEs are in the DCH state the radio resources can in some cases be exhausted due to the lack of channelization codes in the cell. As a result some UEs may be required to use low speed shared channels although in such a case their RRC states can remain at the DCH state.

In the CELL FACH state also referred to herein as a low power active communication state or FACH state the RRC connection is established but there is no dedicated channel allocated to the UE e.g. . Instead the UE e.g. can only transmit user data through shared low speed channels e.g. less than 20 kbps . The FACH can be utilized and designed for applications requiring very low data throughput rate.

In accordance with one aspect the various RRC states also referred to herein as communication states or transition states can impact the radio energy consumption of a UE e.g. . For example as shown by diagrams and a UE e.g. at the IDLE state can consume almost no energy from its wireless network interface. While a device e.g. UE operates within the same state the radio power can be substantially stable regardless of the data throughput. In one example the RRC state machine can be maintained at both the UE and the RNC. In such a case the two peer entities can be synchronized via control channels except e.g. during transient and error situations. In another example both the DL and the UL can utilize the same state machine.

According to another aspect there can be two types of RRC state transitions. State promotions including IDLE state to FACH state IDLE state to DCH state and FACH state to DCH state wherein an RNC can switch or transition an associated UE from a state with lower radio resources and UE energy utilization to another state e.g. higher communication state consuming more resources and UE energy. Conversely state demotions including DCH state to FACH state FACH state to IDLE state and DCH state to IDLE state proceed in the reverse direction to demote the communication state of the UE and cause the UE to utilize less resources and consume less power. Depending on the starting state a state promotion can be triggered by differing means. For example if the UE e.g. is at the IDLE state a state promotion can be triggered by either any user data as opposed to control data transmission activity. If the UE e.g. is at the FACH state a state promotion can be triggered by the per UE queue size called the Radio Link Controller RLC buffer size exceeding a defined size threshold in either direction for example.

In another example state demotions can be triggered by inactivity timers maintained by the RNC. For example a timer controlling demotion from the DCH state to the FACH state is referred to herein as and a timer controlling FACH state to IDLE state demotions is referred to herein as . At the DCH state the RNC can reset the timer to a fixed threshold T whenever it observes any UL DL data frame. Accordingly if there is no user data transmission for T seconds the timer times out and the communication state of the UE can be demoted from the DCH state to the FACH state. A similar scheme can be used for the timer. As shown by diagrams and the threshold T assigned to timers and can depend in part on implementation. For example diagram illustrates a system with set to 5 seconds also referred to herein as sec or s and set to 12 seconds while diagram illustrates a system with set to 6 seconds and set to 4 seconds.

It can be appreciated that state promotions can involve more work than state demotions for both the UE and RNC. In particular state promotions can incur a long ramp up latency of up to 2 seconds during which tens of control messages are exchanged between a UE and RNC for resource allocation. Excessive state promotions can thus increase the processing overhead at the RNC and degrade user experience especially for short data transfers.

Diagrams and in depict state transition diagrams for respective UMTS carriers herein denoted Carrier 1 and Carrier 2 whose state machine parameters under good signal strength conditions are listed in Table I below. In accordance with one aspect such data and or other information collected via system analysis can be utilized to characterize the tail effect of a system.

The disclosed subject matter by controlling the scheduling of data transfers e.g. delaying or advancing the scheduling of data transfers and or bundling or batching of data transfers e.g. bundling data transfers with other more time sensitive data transfers into single data bursts and or employing fast dormancy in accordance with TOP in accordance with the defined traffic communication criterion s can facilitate reducing the amount of power consumed by the UE and the amount of network radio resources used by the UE the amount of wasted radio energy and the amount of wasted channel occupation time with regard to data transfers.

The UE communication management component also can comprise an aggregator component that can aggregate data received e.g. obtained from various entities e.g. communication device s communication network s processor component s user interface s data store s etc. . The aggregator component can correlate respective items of data based at least in part on type of data source of the data time or date the data was generated or received etc. to facilitate processing of the data by other components of the UE communication management component .

The UE communication management component can include an analyzer component that can analyze information including information relating to streaming e.g. bursty streaming of data data transfer parameters data transfer requests application related information one or more defined traffic communication criterion e.g. and corresponding defined traffic communication rule s etc. to facilitate the making of various identifications determinations decisions etc. by components of the UE communication management component . Respective components of the UE communication management component use the analysis results to facilitate identifying determining or deciding whether streamed data is to be sent via a number of data bursts instead of being streamed constantly at a constant bitrate whether information indicative of the display screen size of the UE is to be communicated to another communication device e.g. application server in relation to downloading content e.g. visual image video content when to schedule a data transfer whether a data transfer can be bundled with another data transfer s whether fast dormancy is to be utilized to manage tail time etc.

The UE communication management component also can comprise a streaming controller component that can identify determine or decide whether streamed data e.g. video or audio content can or is to be sent to the UE from the source e.g. application server via a number of data bursts e.g. a number of bursty streams instead of the streamed data being continuously streamed at a constant bitrate to the UE in accordance with one or more defined traffic communication criterion. The streaming controller component can coordinate or negotiate with a communication device such as an application server e.g. a communication management component of the application server to facilitate identifying or determining whether streamed data can or is to be sent to the UE from the communication device via a series of data bursts instead of the streamed data being continuously streamed at a constant bitrate to the UE.

The UE communication management component can include a display characteristics component that can communication information indicative of the display characteristics of the UE to a communication device in relation to a request for content e.g. visual image video content etc. to facilitate enabling the communication device to adjust the display characteristics of the content to correspond with the display characteristics of a display screen of the UE. For example the display characteristics component can facilitate including information indicative of the display characteristics of the UE in relation to e.g. as part of a request for content to a communication device. The display characteristics related information can include display screen dimensions or resolution information indicating a make or model of the UE a UE identifier username of a UE user account or registration number associated with the UE and or associated UE user etc. In some implementations the display characteristics component can facilitate including the display characteristics related information in a special or designated header in relation to the content request.

The UE communication management component also can comprise a data transfer scheduler component that can be employed to schedule data transfers associated with applications utilized by the UE. The data transfer scheduler component can schedule a data transfer to be executed at its nominal transfer start time or at another desired time e.g. a time before or after the nominal transfer start time in accordance with data transfer parameters comprising jitter information associated with the data transfer. The scheduling of the data transfers can facilitate bundling a data transfer with another data transfer s into a single data burst to facilitate reducing the number of data bursts communicated between the UE and communication network.

The UE communication management component can contain a data transfer grouper component that can group or bundle a data transfer with one or more other data transfers into a single data burst when permitted in accordance with the respective data transfer parameters of the respective data transfers and the defined traffic communication criteria. The data transfer grouper component can operate in conjunction with the data transfer scheduler component to facilitate efficient scheduling and or bundling of data transfers associated with the UE.

The UE communication management component can contain an interface component that can be utilized to facilitate interfacing with interacting with and or utilizing a desired API such as a data transfer API associated with an application or a tail removal API that can be employed as part of a fast dormancy operation in accordance with TOP to facilitate identifying or obtaining information relating to and or facilitate performance of a data transfer s or a dormancy operation. In another aspect the UE communication management component can comprise a dormancy component that can employ fast dormancy in accordance with TOP to facilitate reducing the amount of tail time e.g. unnecessary tail time for the UE during communication operations by the UE as more fully disclosed herein.

The UE communication management component can contain a queue component that can employ one or more queues including a data transfer queue wherein respective data packets associated with respective data transfers can be inserted in a specified order to facilitate communication of the data packets in accordance with the scheduling of data transfers as specified by the data transfer scheduler component . The data transfer scheduler component can operate in conjunction with the queue component to insert order or re order data packets in the desired order in the queue component and retrieve data packets from the queue component when its time for such data packets to be communicated. The queue component also can include a data reception queue wherein respective data packets associated with respective received data transfers can be inserted in a specified order to facilitate presentation of the data packets by the UE. The queue component can insert order or re order data packets in a desired order in the queue component and can retrieve or enable the retrieval of data packets from the queue component when its time for such data packets to be presented or provided by the UE.

In another aspect the UE communication management component can comprise a processor component that can work in conjunction with the other components e.g. communicator component aggregator component analyzer component etc. to facilitate performing the various functions of the UE communication management component . The processor component can employ one or more processors microprocessors or controllers that can process data such as information relating to streaming of data and or data transfers associated with the UE information relating to operations of the UE communication management component and or other information etc. to facilitate operation of the UE communication management component as more fully disclosed herein and control data flow between the UE communication management component and other components e.g. communication network base station a server or other communication device etc. associated with the UE communication management component .

The UE communication management component also can include a data store that can store data structures e.g. user data metadata code structure s e.g. modules objects hashes classes procedures or instructions information relating to data transfers information relating to operations of the UE communication management component defined traffic communication criterion s and corresponding defined traffic communication rule s etc. to facilitate controlling operations associated with the UE communication management component . In an aspect the processor component can be functionally coupled e.g. through a memory bus to the data store in order to store and retrieve information desired to operate and or confer functionality at least in part to the communicator component aggregator component analyzer component etc. and or substantially any other operational aspects of the UE communication management component .

The communication management component also can comprise an aggregator component that can aggregate data for transmission to another entity e.g. UE s communication network s processor component s user interface s data store s etc. or received e.g. obtained from another entity. The aggregator component can correlate respective items of data based at least in part on type of data source of the data piece of content to which data portions e.g. bursty streams relate time or date the data was generated or received etc. to facilitate processing of the data by other components of the communication management component and or transmission of data to another entity.

The communication management component can contain an analyzer component that can analyze information including information relating to streaming e.g. bursty streaming of data data transfer parameters data transfer requests application related information one or more defined traffic communication criterion e.g. and corresponding defined traffic communication rule s etc. to facilitate the making of various identifications determinations decisions etc. by components of the communication management component . Respective components of the communication management component use the analysis results to facilitate identifying determining or deciding whether streamed data is to be sent via a number of data bursts instead of being streamed constantly at a constant bitrate whether content e.g. visual image video content is to be adjusted in size or with regard to other display characteristics in relation to communicating the content to a UE based at least in part on display characteristics related information received from the UE when to schedule a data transfer etc.

The communication management component can comprise a streaming controller component that can facilitate identifying determining or deciding whether streamed data e.g. video or audio content can or is to be sent to the UE from the communication device via a number of data bursts e.g. a number of bursty streams instead of the streamed data being continuously streamed at a constant bitrate to the UE in accordance with one or more defined traffic communication criterion. The streaming controller component can coordinate or negotiate with the UE e.g. the UE communication management component of the UE to facilitate identifying or determining whether streamed data can or is to be sent from the communication device to the UE via a series of data bursts instead of the streamed data being continuously streamed at a constant bitrate to the UE.

The communication management component can include an adjuster component that can receive information indicative of the display characteristics of the UE from the UE in relation to a request for content e.g. visual image video content etc. . The display characteristics related information can include display screen dimensions or resolution of the UE information indicating a make or model of the UE a UE identifier username of a UE user account or registration number associated with the UE and or associated UE user etc. The adjuster component can determine whether content is to have its display characteristics e.g. dimensions of an image s or other visual characteristics of the image s adjusted based at least in part on the received display characteristics related information. The communication device can efficiently transmit the content e.g. adjusted content to the UE such that the content as transmitted by the communication device can correspond with the display characteristics of the UE to facilitate presentation of the content by the UE such that the communication device reduces of minimizes the use of resources or bandwidth to communicate content that has different display characteristics than e.g. is larger than the display characteristics associated with the UE.

The communication management component can comprise a data transfer scheduler component that can be employed to schedule data transfers associated with the communication device and or application s associated with the communication management component and utilized by one or more UEs in a communication network environment. The data transfer scheduler component can schedule a data transfer to be executed at a desired time e.g. a time within the jitter time window associated with the data transfer in accordance with data transfer parameters comprising jitter information associated with the data transfer. The scheduling of the data transfers can facilitate bundling a data transfer with another data transfer s into a single data burst to facilitate reducing the number of data bursts communicated between communication devices and the UE via the communication network.

The communication management component also can include a data transfer grouper component that can group or bundle a data transfer with another data transfer s into a single data burst and or schedule a data transfer s associated with the communication device to occur when permitted in accordance with the data transfer parameters e.g. jitter parameter of the data transfer s and the defined traffic communication criteria. The data transfer grouper component can operate in conjunction with the data transfer scheduler component to facilitate efficient scheduling and or bundling of data transfers to be sent to a UE. In some implementations the communication management component can contain an interface component that can be utilized to facilitate interfacing with interacting with and or utilizing a desired API such as a data transfer API associated with an application to facilitate identifying or obtaining information relating to and or facilitate performance of a data transfer s .

The communication management component can include a queue component that can employ one or more queues including a data transfer queue wherein respective data packets associated with respective data transfers can be inserted in a specified order to facilitate communication of the data packets in accordance with the scheduling of data transfers as specified by the data transfer scheduler component . The queue component can be and or function as a buffer component to buffer the data transfers of respective portions of content being transmitted to the UE in bursty streams. The data transfer scheduler component can operate in conjunction with the queue component to insert order or re order data packets in the desired order in the queue component and retrieve data packets from the queue component when its time for such data packets to be communicated e.g. to the UE .

In another aspect the communication management component can comprise a processor component that can work in conjunction with the other components e.g. communicator component aggregator component analyzer component etc. to facilitate performing the various functions of the communication management component . The processor component can employ one or more processors microprocessors or controllers that can process data such as information relating to data transfers associated with one or more UEs information relating to operations of the communication management component and or other information etc. to facilitate operation of the communication management component as more fully disclosed herein and control data flow between the communication management component and other components e.g. communication network base station a server UE etc. associated with the communication management component .

The communication management component also can include a data store that can store data structures e.g. user data metadata code structure s e.g. modules objects hashes classes procedures or instructions information relating to data transfers information relating to operations of the communication management component defined traffic communication criterion s and a corresponding defined traffic communication rule s etc. to facilitate controlling operations associated with the communication management component . In an aspect the processor component can be functionally coupled e.g. through a memory bus to the data store in order to store and retrieve information desired to operate and or confer functionality at least in part to the communicator component aggregator component analyzer component etc. and or substantially any other operational aspects of the communication management component .

In order to provide further context for various aspects of the disclosed subject matter illustrates a non limiting example system that can implement some or all of the aspects described herein. As illustrates system can include a wireless terminal e.g. UE . In some implementations the wireless terminal can receive and transmit signal s to and or from wireless devices such as APs access terminals wireless ports and routers or the like through a set of L antennas . In one example antennas can be implemented as part of a communication platform which in turn can comprise electronic components and associated circuitry and or other means that provide for processing and manipulation of received signal s and signal s to be transmitted.

In an aspect the communication platform can include a receiver transmitter or transceiver which can transmit and receive signals and or perform one or more processing operations on such signals e.g. conversion from analog to digital upon reception conversion from digital to analog upon transmission etc. . In addition transceiver can divide a single data stream into multiple parallel data streams or perform the reciprocal operation.

In another example a multiplexer demultiplexer mux demux unit can be coupled to transceiver . Mux demux unit can for example facilitate manipulation of signal in time and frequency space. Additionally or alternatively mux demux unit can multiplex information e.g. data traffic control signaling etc. according to various multiplexing schemes such as time division multiplexing TDM frequency division multiplexing FDM orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM code division multiplexing CDM space division multiplexing SDM or the like. In addition mux demux unit can scramble and spread information according to substantially any code known in the art such as Hadamard Walsh codes Baker codes Kasami codes polyphase codes and so on.

In a further example a modulator demodulator mod demod unit implemented within communication platform can modulate information according to multiple modulation techniques such as frequency modulation amplitude modulation e.g. L ary quadrature amplitude modulation L QAM etc. phase shift keying PSK and the like. Further communication platform can also include a coder decoder codec module that can facilitate coding information for transmission to another communication device or decoding and or reconstructing received information for presentation by the wireless terminal .

The wireless terminal can include a processor that can be configured to confer functionality at least in part to substantially any electronic component utilized by wireless terminal . As further shown in system a power supply can attach to a power grid and include one or more transformers to achieve a power level at which various components and or circuitry associated with wireless terminal can operate. The power supply can include a rechargeable power mechanism to facilitate continued operation of wireless terminal in the event that wireless terminal is disconnected from the power grid the power grid is not operating etc.

In still another aspect the wireless terminal can include a UE communication management component that can be associated with e.g. functionally connected to the processor . The UE communication management component can be the same as or similar to or can comprise the same or similar functionality as similarly named components as more fully disclosed herein.

In a further aspect processor can be functionally connected to communication platform and can facilitate various operations on data e.g. symbols bits chips etc. which can include but are not limited to effecting direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats inter packet times etc. In another example processor can be functionally connected via a data or system bus to any other components or circuitry not shown in system to at least partially confer functionality to each of such components.

As additionally illustrated in system a memory e.g. data store can be used by wireless terminal to store data structures code instructions and program modules system or device information code sequences for scrambling spreading and pilot transmission location intelligence storage determined delay offset s over the air propagation models and so on. The memory also can store and or provide content to facilitate presentation by the wireless terminal display characteristics related information associated with the wireless terminal defined traffic communication criterion s and a corresponding traffic communication rule s and or other information. Processor can be coupled to the memory in order to store and retrieve information necessary to operate and or confer functionality to communication platform and or any other components of wireless terminal .

The aforementioned systems and or devices have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It should be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or sub components specified therein some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components. Sub components could also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components. Further yet one or more components and or sub components may be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality. Also while various components have been illustrated as separate components it will be appreciated that multiple components can be implemented as a single component or a single component can be implemented as multiple components without departing from example embodiments. The components may also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein for the sake of brevity but known by those of skill in the art.

In view of the example systems components and devices described above example methods that can be implemented in accordance with this disclosure can be further appreciated with reference to flowcharts in . For purposes of simplicity of explanation various methods disclosed herein are presented and described as a series of acts however it is to be understood and appreciated that this disclosure is not limited by the order of acts as some acts may occur in different order and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. It is noted that not all illustrated acts may be required to implement a described method in accordance with this disclosure. In addition for example one or more methods disclosed herein could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover interaction diagram s or call flow s represent several of the example methods disclosed herein in accordance with the described subject matter particularly in instances when disparate entities or functional elements enact disparate portions of one or more of the several methods. Furthermore two or more of the disclosed example methods can be implemented in combination to accomplish one or more features or advantages described in this disclosure.

At a determination can be made regarding whether content e.g. video or audio content can be communicated to a UE from another communication device using a number of respective e.g. separate data bursts comprising respective portions of the content instead of communicating the content using a continuous stream at a constant bitrate. The UE communication component of the UE and or the communication management component of the communication device can determine whether it is acceptable e.g. permissible allowable tolerable etc. to communicate the content to a UE from the communication device using a number of separate data bursts comprising respective portions of the content instead of communicating the content using a continuous stream at a constant bitrate based at least in part on the defined traffic communication criterion s .

At the respective portions of the content can be communicated to the UE using respective data bursts in response to determining that the content can be communicated to the UE from the communication device using separate data bursts comprising the respective portions of the content instead of communicating the content using a continuous stream at a constant bitrate. The UE communication component and or the communication management component can respectively operate to facilitate having the communication device transmit the respective portions of the content to the UE using respective data bursts in response to determining that it is acceptable for the content to be communicated to the UE from the communication device using separate data bursts comprising the respective portions of the content instead of communicating the content using a continuous stream at a constant bitrate. In some implementations the UE communication management component and or communication management component can schedule a data transfer of a portion of the content to coincide with e.g. be bundled with one or more other data transfers of other content or information as part of a single data burst as more fully disclosed herein. The UE communication management component also can employ fast dormancy and or a TOP protocol to further improve the efficiency of communication of information associated with the UE as more fully disclosed herein.

Referring next to depicted is a flow chart of an example method for managing data transfers associated with a UE in accordance with various aspects and embodiments. In accordance with various aspects the method can be utilized by a UE employing a UE communication management component in relation to receiving content from another communication device.

At streamed content e.g. video audio or multimedia content destined for the UE can be identified. Streamed content can be destined for delivery to the UE for example in response to a request by the UE to download the content from the communication device e.g. application server . The UE communication management component can identify the streamed content as being for example content that can be continuously streamed to the UE at a constant bitrate. As more fully disclosed herein streaming of content to a UE at a constant bitrate can result in radio and other resources of the UE and communication network being used inefficiently e.g. the communication channel e.g. DCH which can be used to communicate the content can be underutilized and or unnecessarily utilized .

At a determination can be made regarding whether transmission of the content to the UE can be delayed for a desired amount of time and transmitted in bursty streams of content to the UE. The UE communication management component can negotiate with the communication management component of the source e.g. sender communication device regarding whether transmission of the content to the UE can be delayed for a desired amount of time and transmitted in bursty streams to the UE wherein each of the bursty streams can include respective portions of the content.

At respective portions of the content can be received in respective bursty streams at respective e.g. different times e.g. at regular or irregular time intervals from the source communication device in response determining that transmission of the content to the UE can be delayed for a desired amount of time and transmitted in bursty streams of content to the UE. In response determining that transmission of the content to the UE can be delayed for a desired amount of time and transmitted in bursty streams of content to the UE the source communication device can transmit the respective portions of content in the respective bursty streams at respective times and the UE can receive the respective portions of the content in the respective bursty streams at those respective times.

In some implementations the UE communication management component can schedule a data transfer of a respective portion of the content to have it bundled with one or more other data transfers associated with e.g. destined for delivery to the UE. For example if the UE is able to receive a data transfer from a second source communication device e.g. an application server during a particular time interval and the data transfer of the respective portion of content from the source communication device can be received during that particular time interval e.g. without disruption of presentation of the content by the UE the UE communication management component can schedule these data transfers to be delivered to the UE during a same data burst instead of having them delivered to the UE in separate data bursts wherein communicating the data transfers in the same data burst can be more efficient than communicating these data transfers in separate data bursts.

At streamed content e.g. video audio or multimedia content destined for the UE can be identified. Streamed content can be destined for delivery to the UE for example in response to a request by the UE to download the content from the communication device e.g. application server . The communication management component can identify the streamed content as being for example content that can be continuously streamed to the UE at a constant bitrate by the communication device. As more fully disclosed herein streaming of content to a UE at a constant bitrate can result in radio and other resources of the UE and communication network being used inefficiently e.g. the communication channel e.g. DCH which can be used to communicate the content can be underutilized and or unnecessarily utilized .

At a determination can be made regarding whether transmission of the content to the UE can be delayed for a desired amount of time and transmitted in bursty streams of content to the UE. The communication management component associated with the communication device can negotiate with the UE communication management component associated with the UE regarding whether transmission of the content to the UE can be delayed for a desired amount of time and transmitted in bursty streams to the UE wherein each of the bursty streams can include respective portions of the content.

At respective portions of the content can be stored in a buffer component e.g. queue and or buffer component to facilitate transmission of the respective portions of the content in respective bursty streams at respective times in response determining that transmission of the content to the UE can be delayed for a desired amount of time and transmitted in bursty streams of content to the UE. In response to determining that transmission of the content to the UE can be delayed for a desired amount of time and transmitted in bursty streams of content to the UE the communication management component can store a subset of the respective portions of the content in the buffer component for transmission of the respective portions of the content in subsequent data bursts in accordance with the defined traffic communication criterion s .

At the respective portions of the content can be transmitted in respective bursty streams at respective e.g. different times e.g. at regular or irregular time intervals to the UE. At respective times e.g. as scheduled in coordination with the UE communication management component the communication management component can facilitate transmitting the respective portions of the content in the respective bursty streams to the UE and the UE can receive the respective portions of the content in the respective bursty streams at the respective times. In some implementations the UE communication management component and the communication management component can coordinate with each other to schedule a data transfer of a respective portion of the content to have it bundled with one or more other data transfers associated with e.g. destined for delivery to the UE as more fully disclosed herein.

At a request for content and associated information indicative of display characteristics of the UE can be generated. The UE can generate a request for content e.g. content including a visual image or video content . The UE communication management component can provide display characteristics related information in relation to e.g. as part of the request for content.

At the request for content and the associated information indicative of display characteristics of the UE can be transmitted e.g. to the communication device that can provide the content. The UE and or associated UE communication management component can facilitate transmitting the request for content and the associated information indicative of display characteristics of the UE to the communication device that can provide the content.

At the content at least a portion of which can be adjusted in accordance with the display characteristics related information can be received e.g. by the UE . The UE can receive the content including the adjusted portion from the communication device. The communication device can adjust at least a portion e.g. visual image s or video content of the content to correspond to the display characteristics of the UE in accordance with the display characteristics related information associated with the UE as provided to the communication device in relation to the content request.

At the content including the adjusted portion of the content can be presented. The UE can present the content including the adjusted portion of the content on a display screen of the UE.

At a request for content and associated information indicative of display characteristics of the UE can be received. The UE can generate a request for content e.g. content including a visual image or video content . The UE communication management component can provide display characteristics related information to the communication device e.g. communication management component in relation to e.g. as part of the request for content.

At the information indicative of display characteristics of the UE can be analyzed. The communication management component can analyze the display characteristics related information to facilitate determining whether to adjust certain content e.g. visual image s video content associated with the content request.

At at least a portion of the content can be adjusted based at least in part on the display characteristics related information. The communication management component can adjust at least a portion e.g. visual image s or video content of the requested content to correspond to the display characteristics of the UE in accordance with the display characteristics related information associated with the UE. For example the communication management component can adjust e.g. decrease the size of a visual image s or video content to correspond to the display characteristics e.g. display screen dimensions or resolution of the UE in accordance with the display characteristics related information associated with the UE.

At the content including the adjusted portion of the content can be transmitted e.g. to the UE. The communication device can transmit the content including the adjusted portion e.g. adjusted visual image s or video content of the content to the UE for presentation by the UE.

Turning to a non limiting example computing system or operating environment in which various aspects of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented is illustrated. One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that handheld portable and other computing devices and computing objects of all kinds are contemplated for use in connection with the disclosed subject matter e.g. anywhere that a communications system may be desirably configured. Accordingly the below general purpose remote computer described below in is but one example of a computing system in which the disclosed subject matter may be implemented.

Although not required various aspects of the disclosed subject matter can partly be implemented via an operating system for use by a developer of services for a device or object and or included within application software that can operate in connection with the component s of the disclosed subject matter. Software may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by one or more computers such as client workstations servers or other devices. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various aspects of the disclosed subject matter may be practiced with other computer system configurations and protocols.

With reference to an example of a computing environment for implementing various aspects of the disclosed subject matter includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer can include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus can be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures.

Computer can include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media and or communications media which two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows. Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to RAM ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

Communications media can embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

The system memory can include computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and or random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up can be stored in memory . Memory also can contain data and or program modules that can be immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation memory also can include an operating system application programs other program modules and program data.

The computer can also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. For example computer could include a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and or an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. A hard disk drive can be connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as an interface and a magnetic disk drive or optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as an interface.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices can include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input interface s and or associated interface s that can be coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A graphics subsystem can also be connected to the system bus . A monitor or other type of display device also can be connected to the system bus via an interface such as output interface s which can in turn communicate with video memory. In addition to a monitor computers can also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and a printer which can be connected through output interface s .

The computer can operate in a networked or distributed environment using logical connections to one or more other remote computers such as remote computer which can in turn have media capabilities different from device . The remote computer can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node or any other remote media consumption or transmission device and can include any or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a network such local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN but can also include other networks buses. Such networking environments are commonplace in homes offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer can be connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter. When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a communications component such as a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. A communications component such as a modem which can be internal or external can be connected to the system bus via an input interface s or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in a remote memory storage device. It will be appreciated that the network connections shown and described are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

It is to be appreciated and understood that components e.g. UE AP communication network UE communication management component communication management component etc. as described with regard to a particular system or method can include the same or similar functionality as respective components e.g. respectively named components or similarly named components as described with regard to other systems or methods disclosed herein.

As used in this application the terms component system platform layer interface and the like can refer to and or can include a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational machine with one or more specific functionalities. The entities disclosed herein can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable computer executable instructions a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

In another example respective components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which can be operated by a software or firmware application executed by a processor. In such a case the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and can execute at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts wherein the electronic components can include a processor or other means to execute software or firmware that confers at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. In an aspect a component can emulate an electronic component via a virtual machine e.g. within a cloud computing system.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Moreover articles a and an as used in the subject specification and annexed drawings are to be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Moreover terms like user equipment mobile station mobile wireless device wireless communication device subscriber station subscriber equipment access terminal terminal handset and similar terminology are used herein to refer to a wireless device utilized by a subscriber or user of a wireless communication service to receive or convey data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any data stream or signaling stream. The foregoing terms are utilized interchangeably in the subject specification and related drawings. Likewise the terms access point AP base station Node B Evolved Node B eNode B or eNB Home Node B HNB home access point HAP and the like are utilized interchangeably in the subject application and refer to a wireless network component or appliance that serves and receives data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any data stream or signaling stream from a set of subscriber stations. Data and signaling streams can be packetized or frame based flows.

Furthermore the terms user subscriber customer consumer owner agent and the like are employed interchangeably throughout the subject specification unless context warrants particular distinction s among the terms. It should be appreciated that such terms can refer to human entities or automated components supported through artificial intelligence e.g. a capacity to make inference based on complex mathematical formalisms which can provide simulated vision sound recognition and so forth.

As used herein the terms example exemplary and or demonstrative are utilized to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. For the avoidance of doubt the subject matter disclosed herein is not limited by such examples. In addition any aspect or design described herein as an example exemplary and or demonstrative is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs nor is it meant to preclude equivalent exemplary structures and techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has contains and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements.

It is to be noted that aspects features and or advantages of the disclosed subject matter can be exploited in substantially any wireless telecommunication or radio technology e.g. Wi Fi Bluetooth Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX ZigBee and or other 802.XX wireless technologies including for example wireless technologies using 802.11a b g or n Enhanced General Packet Radio Service Enhanced GPRS Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Third Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB 3GPP Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS High Speed Packet Access HSPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA GSM Global System for Mobile Communications EDGE Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution Radio Access Network GERAN UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN LTE Advanced LTE A etc. Additionally some or all of the aspects described herein can be exploited in legacy telecommunication technologies e.g. GSM. In addition mobile as well non mobile networks e.g. the Internet data service network such as internet protocol television IPTV etc. can exploit aspects or features described herein.

Various aspects or features described herein can be implemented as a method apparatus system or article of manufacture using standard programming or engineering techniques. In addition various aspects or features disclosed in the subject specification can also be realized through program modules that implement at least one or more of the methods disclosed herein the program modules being stored in a memory and executed by at least a processor. Other combinations of hardware and software or hardware and firmware can enable or implement aspects described herein including disclosed method s . The term article of manufacture as used herein can encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or storage media. For example computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical discs e.g. compact disc CD digital versatile disc DVD blu ray disc BD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . or the like.

As it is employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. Further processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of user equipment. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification terms such as store storage data store data storage database and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component are utilized to refer to memory components entities embodied in a memory or components comprising a memory. It is to be appreciated that memory and or memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM can be available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to comprising these and any other suitable types of memory.

What has been described above includes examples of systems and methods that provide advantages of the disclosed subject matter. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methods for purposes of describing the disclosed subject matter but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the disclosed subject matter are possible. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has possesses and the like are used in the detailed description claims appendices and drawings such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

