---

title: Device orientation based translation system
abstract: A method for translating content includes providing a plurality of content on a user device. The plurality of content is associated with a first region display mode. The plurality of content is displayed on the user device in the first region display mode. A predefined orientation is then detected in the user device. The plurality of content is then translated according to a second region display mode to produce a plurality of translated content. The plurality of translated content is then displayed on the user device. In different embodiments, the plurality of content may have been previously provided on the user device, may be retrieved over a network by the user device, or my be received through a user interface on the user device. A specific embodiment allows a user to rotate the user device 180 degrees to quickly and easily translate text displayed on the user device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09613030&OS=09613030&RS=09613030
owner: PayPal, Inc.
number: 09613030
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160226
---
This is a Continuation application to U.S. Utility application Ser. No. 13 426 394 filed Mar. 21 2012 entitled DEVICE ORIENTATION BASED TRANSLATION SYSTEM the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention generally relates to mobile user devices and more particularly to a device orientation based translation system on a mobile user device.

As the world becomes more interconnected and people and businesses become global in their interactions the ability to communicate becomes an issue. People and businesses in a given region typically utilize for example different languages and currencies than those in other regions. These differences tend to introduce barriers to communication between parties.

Conventionally there are a number of steps that must be taken in order to surmount the communication barriers discussed above. For example businesses may train their employees or individuals may educate themselves to operate in other regions such that they speak the appropriate language and are able to convert currency when dealing with those parties. However such training is extremely time consuming and expensive and limits the ability to communicate to a relatively small subset of individuals that have been trained to do so in specific regions.

Furthermore for people and or businesses that have not put forth the time effort and expense to train themselves to communicate in a specific region typical solutions to the communication issues discussed above include translation books that require the user to look up foreign words in their native language and currency calculators that require the user to enter a native or foreign currency to determine a desired conversion. Each of these solutions requires a significant amount of time and effort from the user each time the user wishes to communicate which makes communication awkward and ineffective. Furthermore the user must be prepared with the translation book and currency calculator that are specific to the region in which the user is located in order to be able to communicate which requires significant planning and expense particularly for a user that travels to a variety of different regions frequently.

According to one embodiment a method for translating content includes a user device that displays a plurality of content in a first region display mode that causes the plurality of content to be displayed using a first language and or a first currency. A user of the user device may then change the orientation of the mobile device to a predefined orientation. The mobile device will detect the predefined orientation and in response translate the plurality of content according to a second region display mode to produce translated content which includes the plurality of content in a second language and or a second currency. The user device then displays the translated content.

The plurality of content and its associated first region display mode may have been previously provided on the user device e.g. in an application previously provided on the user device may be retrieved over a network e.g. from a website and or may be received from a user interface on the user device e.g. from a microphone keyboard camera etc. 

The translation of the plurality of content according to the second region display mode may have been previously performed and stored on the user device or in a database that is coupled to the user device over a network. The translation of the plurality of content according to the second region display mode may also be performed by the user device in response to the detection of the predefined orientation or by a translation device that is coupled to the user device over a network.

In an embodiment translation of the plurality of content according to the second region display mode is performed in response to determining that the second region display mode is associated with the predefined orientation. In one example the second region display mode may have been previously associated with the predefined orientation. In another example the user device may determine a current location of the user device in response to detecting the predefined orientation and the second region display mode that is used to translate the plurality of content may be associated with the current location.

As a result a user may quickly and easily retrieve translations of content that is provided on their user device simply by reorienting the user device. This may be particularly useful when the user is located in a region in which they are unfamiliar by allowing the user to use the user device to capture content in the foreign language and translate it or provide content in their native language and translate it to a foreign language for communication with a speaker of that foreign language.

These and other features and advantages of the present disclosure will be more readily apparent from the detailed description of the embodiments set forth below taken in conjunction with the accompanying figures.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

The present disclosure provides a system and method for translating content on a user device. A plurality of content that is associated with a first region display mode is provided on a user device. The user device displays the plurality of content according to the first region display mode which may include displaying the plurality of content in a first language. The user of the user device may then reorient the user device to a predefined orientation in order to have the user device display translated content that is produced by translating the plurality of content according to a second region display mode which may include translating the plurality of content from the first language to a second language. The system and method allow a user to quickly and easily translate content displayed on and in some embodiments provided to the user device.

Referring now to an embodiment of a method for translating content is illustrated. While several embodiments of the method are illustrated and described below those embodiments are not meant to be limiting and one of skill in the art will recognize that a variety of modification to the illustrated embodiments will fall within the scope of the present disclosure. Furthermore particular aspects of each embodiment may be combined with other embodiments while remaining within the scope of the present disclosure. The method is described with reference to a user device that includes a processing system for processing information discussed in further detail below. The user device includes a device chassis that houses processing components not illustrated that are coupled to a display and an input button . The display and input button are accessible on a surface of the device chassis . In an embodiment the display may provide an input device such as for example a touch input display device known in the art. In some embodiments discussed below the user device is illustrated and described as a mobile user device such as a phone. However the present disclosure is not so limited and the user device may include other mobile computing devices such as tablet computers and laptop computers and or a variety of other computing devices known in the art.

The method begins at block where content that is associated with a first region display mode is provided on a user device. The content may be provided on the user device using a number of methods known in the art. In an embodiment prior to the execution of the method the content may have been stored on the user device in a storage device or memory that is housed in the user device . For example the content may be included in an application that was previously copied onto the user device . In another embodiment the content may be retrieved over a network by the user device . For example the content may be a webpage on a website that is accessed using the user device during block of the method . In another embodiment the content may be provided through a user interface on the user device . For example the content may be included in an image captured using a camera on the user device through the display e.g. when the display is a touch input display device through a microphone on the user device and or using a variety of other user interfaces known in the art. While a variety of embodiments of the provision of content on the user device along with examples of those embodiments are provided herein one of skill in the art will recognize that content may be provided on the user device in a variety of other manners without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

As described in further detail below content may be associated with region display modes. In an embodiment a region display mode may be associated with a geographical region a plurality of geographical regions a language a currency and or a variety of other translatable content parameters known in the art. For example a region display mode may be associated with a region that includes a particular country that speaks a particular language and or uses a particular currency. In another example a region display mode may be associated with regions that includes a plurality of countries that share a language e.g. the United States and England and or a currency e.g. the European Union. In another example a region display mode may be associated with a language region or regions where a particular language is spoken. In another example a region display mode may be associated with a currency region or regions where a particular currency is used. While a plurality of examples of region display modes and display mode parameters have been described one of skill in the art will recognize that a variety of other region display mode parameters will fall within the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to the method then proceeds to block where the content is displayed on the user device. In the embodiment illustrated in the content is displayed on a content screen that includes different portions of the content including a title an illustration and an article . In an embodiment the content displayed on the content screen may have been provided on the user device prior to the method e.g. it may be part of a news application that was previously downloaded to the user device or may be currently being retrieved over a network by the user device during the method e.g. it may be a webpage on a website that is currently being accessed by the user device . 

The content provided on the user device and displayed on the content screen is associated with a first region display mode. In an embodiment the association of the first region display mode and the content may be a database association between the content and a set of instructions for displaying the content. For example the content displayed on the content screen in includes the title and the article displayed in the English language. The user device may include settings that allow a user to set a first region display mode on the user device to an English language region display mode that results in content provided to the user device being displayed in the English language. In one example the content provided on the user device in block of the method may be provided in a plurality of different languages and at block the user device may determine that an English language region display mode has been enabled and in response provide the title and the article in the English language. In another example the content being displayed on the content screen in may have originally been provided or received only in a language or languages other than the English language and the user device may determine that the English language region display mode has been enabled and in response translate the content to provide the title and the article in the English language. The details involved in the translation of content are described in further detail below with reference to block of the method .

However in other embodiments the association of the first region display mode and the content may not include any database associations and instead may refer to the language in which the content was received. For example the content may have been received as displayed on the content screen in including the title and the article displayed in the English language and the association between the content and a first region display mode may simply refer to fact that the content is available for display on the user device in the English language i.e. an English language region display mode. Thus the user device may receive or have been previously provided with content that is provided in the English language and that content is considered to be associated with an English language region display mode. As such displaying the content according to the first region display mode at block of the method may simply involve the user device displaying content in response to receiving it or having been provided it e.g. if the content screen is a webpage that is provided by a website in the English language to all devices that access that website the user device may display that content screen as provided using conventional methods known in the art in order to display the content according to the first region display mode. 

Referring now to and the method then proceeds to block where a predefined orientation of the user device is detected. In an embodiment the user device may be provided with a predefined orientation that may be detected by an orientation detection device e.g. a gyroscope in the user device . Furthermore the predefined orientation may be set by the user of the user device . The user device is illustrated in in an orientation A. In an embodiment at block of the method the user may rotate the user device in a direction B to change the orientation of the user device from the orientation A to an orientation C illustrated in . In an embodiment the orientation C may be the predefined orientation and the orientation detection device may detect that the user device is in the orientation C. In another embodiment the predefined orientation may include a predefined orientation change and the orientation detection device may detect the rotation or change in orientation of the user device from the orientation A to the orientation C as the predefined orientation. While rotation of the user device about approximately 180 degrees is described in the present disclosure as the predefined orientation due to that orientation change having desirable characteristics such as providing the display with the same aspect ration in both the beginning and ending orientation the present disclosure is not so limited and a variety of different orientations and or orientation changes are envisioned as falling within the scope of the present disclosure. Furthermore the predefined orientation may include an orientation range such as for example between 175 and 185 degrees from the orientation illustrated in

The method then proceeds to block where a second region display mode is determined to be associated with the predefined orientation. In an embodiment in response to detecting the predefined orientation the user device determines that a second region display mode is associated with the predefined orientation or orientation change provided by the user at block . In an embodiment the user device may include settings that allow the user to set a second region display mode that is associated with the predefined orientation. For example the user may set the user device to a Spanish language region display mode for use by the user device in response to the detection of the predefined orientation. In another embodiment the user device may include a location determination device e.g. a Global Positioning System GPS that the user instructs the user device to use to determine the second region display mode that will be associated with the predefined orientation. For example the user may set the user device to determine a current location of the user user device in response to the detection of the predefined orientation and that current location may be used to determine the second region display mode e.g. in the illustrated embodiment a current location may be Mexico City Mexico resulting in the second region display mode being a Spanish language region display mode. In other embodiments block of the method may be skipped.

The method then proceeds to block where the content is translated according to the second region display mode to produce translated content. In some embodiments the actual translation of the content according to the second region display mode at block e.g. from a first language to a second language may have been conducted prior to the method . For example as discussed above the content may have been previously provided on the user device prior to the method in a variety of different languages and thus the translation of the content according to the second region display mode may include the user device retrieving the translated content in the language that is associated with second region display mode. In another example the content may be available in different languages on a device database that is coupled to the user device through a network and thus the translation of the content according to the second region display mode may include the user device retrieving the translated content over the network from the device database in the language that is associated with second region display mode.

In other embodiments the user device may include a translation engine that is operable to receive the content in a first language and translate that content to a second language. For example upon being set to a particular second region display mode the user device may retrieve and store a second region translation database that allows the user device to produce translated content in a language that is associated with the second region display mode from content that was provided in one or more different languages. In other embodiments the user device may be coupled over a network to the translation engine that is operable to receive the content in a first language and translate that content to a second language. For example upon detecting the predefined orientation the user device may send the content over a network to a device that includes the translation engine for translation and receive the translated content back.

The method then proceeds to block where the translated content is displayed. illustrates a translated content screen that include a title and article that have been translated from the English language title and article of the content screen in to a Spanish language. In an embodiment the structure of the content screen is maintained in the content screen with the size and positioning of the title illustration and article on the content screen the same relative to the size and positioning of the title illustration and article on the content screen . Thus as can been seen in the method allows a user viewing the content screen in the English language on the user device to quickly and easily have that content screen translated to the Spanish language to display the translated content screen by reorienting the user device . One application of this illustrated embodiment includes learning applications on the user device that provide words phrases and other content on the user device in a number of different languages and then allow the user to learn a language by viewing the content in their native language following by reorienting the user device to view the content in the language they wish to learn. Another application of this illustrated embodiment includes web browsing on the user device that allows the user to quickly view a webpage in their native language by reorienting the user device such that the webpage is translated from a foreign language in which it was originally provided.

Referring now to and another embodiment of the method is illustrated that is substantially similar to the method described above with reference to but with some differences detailed below. At blocks and of the method the content that is associated with the first region display mode has been provided on the user device over a network and displayed on the user device as a mobile payment content screen that includes a title an image and payment details . For example the user of the user device may be shopping in a store and have the ability to purchase goods from a store merchant using their user device and the mobile payment content screen may be provided for them to do so. In another example the user of the user device may be shopping online and may be provided the mobile payment content screen to make a purchase.

The method then proceeds to block as discussed above where the user reorients the user device from an orientation D illustrated in by rotating the user device in a direction E until the user device is in an orientation F illustrated in . As discussed above the orientation F may be a predefined orientation that is detected by an orientation detection device in the user device at block of the method .

At block of the method in response to detecting the predefined orientation the user device determines that a second region display mode is associated with the predefined orientation or orientation change provided by the user at block . As discussed above the user device may include settings that allow the user to set a second region display mode that is associated with the predefined orientation. For example the user may set the user device to a Japanese language region display mode and a Japanese currency region display mode for use in response to the detection of the predefined orientation. As also discussed above the user device may include a location determination device e.g. a Global Positioning System GPS that the user instructs the user device to use to determine the second region display mode that will be associated with the predefined orientation. For example the user may set the user device to determine a current location of the user user device in response to the detection of the predefined orientation and that current location may be used to determine the second region display mode e.g. in the illustrated embodiment a current location may be Tokyo Japan resulting in the second region display mode being a Japanese language region display mode and a Japanese currency region display mode. 

At block of the method the content is translated according to the second region display mode to produce translated content. As discussed above the actual translation of the content according to the second region display mode at block may have been conducted prior to the method . For example the content may have been previously provided on the user device in a variety of different languages and currencies and thus the translation of the content according to the second region display mode may include the user device retrieving the translated content in the language an currency that is associated with second region display mode. In another example the content may be available in different languages and currencies on a device database that is coupled to the user device through a network and thus the translation of the content according to the second region display mode may include the user device retrieving the translated content over the network from the device database in the language and currency that is associated with second region display mode.

As also discussed above the user device may include a translation engine that is operable to receive the content in a first language and first currency and translate that content to a second language and second currency. For example upon being set to a particular second region display mode the user device may retrieve and store a second region translation database that allows the user device to produce translated content in a language and currency that is associated with the second region display mode from content that was provided in one or more different languages and or currencies. In other embodiments the user device may be coupled over a network to the translation engine that is operable to receive the content in a first language and first currency and translate that content to a second language and second currency. For example upon detecting the predefined orientation the user device may send the content over a network to a device that includes the translation engine for translation and receive the translated content back.

At block of the method the translated content is displayed. illustrates a translated content screen that include a title and payment details that have been translated from the English language title and the English language and United States dollar currency payment details of the content screen in to a Japanese language and Japanese Yen currency. In an embodiment the structure of the content screen is maintained in the content screen with the size and positioning of the title illustration and article on the content screen the same relative to the size and positioning of the title illustration and payment details on the content screen . Thus as can been seen in FIGS. and the method allows a user viewing the content screen in the English language and United States dollar currency on the user device to quickly and easily have that content screen translated to the Japanese language and Japanese Yen currency to display the translated content screen by reorienting the user device . One application of this illustrated embodiment includes mobile payment or online shopping applications on the user device that provide purchase details associated with a purchase in a foreign language and currency and then allow the user to view those purchase details in their native language and currency by reorienting the user device .

Referring now to and another embodiment of the method is illustrated that is substantially similar to the method described above with reference to but with some differences detailed below. At block of the method the content is provided on the user device via a user interface that in the illustrated embodiment includes a camera on the user device . illustrates a user holding the user device to capture an image of an advertisement that includes content . For example the user of the user device may be traveling in a region in which the user is unfamiliar with the language and that user may see an advertisement or other information and capture an image of it.

At block of the method the image including the content which is associated with a first region display mode as discussed above is provided on the user device as an image content screen that includes an graphic and text details . In an embodiment the user device may user techniques known in the art such as for example character recognition techniques in order to determine that the image includes the graphic and the text details and to display those portions of the content screen . In another embodiment the determination that the image includes at least the text details may occur later in the method e.g. during the translation at block and the display of the content screen may only include displaying the image as captured by the user in block .

The method then proceeds to block as discussed above where the user reorients the user device from an orientation G illustrated in by rotating the user device in a direction H until the user device is in an orientation I illustrated in . As discussed above the orientation I may be a predefined orientation that is detected by an orientation detection device in the user device at block of the method .

At block of the method in response to detecting the predefined orientation the user device determines that a second region display mode is associated with the predefined orientation or orientation change provided by the user at block . As discussed above the user device may include settings that allow the user to set a second region display mode that is associated with the predefined orientation. For example the user may set the user device to a German language region display mode and a German currency region display mode for use in response to the detection of the predefined orientation. As also discussed above the user device may include a location determination device e.g. a Global Positioning System GPS that the user instructs the user device to use to determine the second region display mode that will be associated with the predefined orientation. For example the user may set the user device to determine a current location of the user user device in response to the detection of the predefined orientation and that current location may be used to determine the second region display mode e.g. in the illustrated embodiment a current location may be Munich Germany resulting in the second region display mode being a German language region display mode and German currency region display mode. 

At block of the method the content is translated according to the second region display mode to produce translated content. As discussed above the user device may use techniques known in the art such as for example character recognition techniques to determine that the image captured by the user in block includes the text details in the content screen . By recognizing the characters in the text details of the content screen the user device may then perform a translation operation on the text details according to the second region display mode.

As discussed above the user device may include a translation engine that is operable to receive the content in a first language and first currency and translate that content to a second language and second currency. For example upon being set to a particular second region display mode the user device may retrieve and store a second region translation database that allows the user device to produce translated content in a language that is associated with the second region display mode from content that was provided in one or more different languages and one or more different currencies. In other embodiments the user device may be coupled over a network to the translation engine that is operable to receive the content in a first language and first currency and translate that content to a second language and second currency. For example upon detecting the predefined orientation the user device may send the content over a network to a device that includes the translation engine for translation and receive the translated content back.

At block of the method the translated content is displayed. illustrates a translated content screen that include text details that have been translated from the English language and United States Dollar currency text details of the content screen in to a German language and German Euro currency. In an embodiment the structure of the content screen is maintained in the content screen with the size and positioning of the graphic and text details on the content screen the same relative to the size and positioning of the graphic and text details on the content screen . Thus as can been seen in the method allows a user presented with a physical advertisement in the English language and United States dollar currency to capture an image of that physical advertisement on the user device and then quickly and easily have the details of that physical advertisement translated to the German language and German Euro currency to display the translated content screen by reorienting the user device . One application of this illustrated embodiment includes a mobile application on the user device for a user that is traveling in a foreign country and that allows the user to capture images of advertisements or other information that include text in a foreign language in order to quickly and easily translate that text to the user native language so that the user may understand that advertisement or other information.

Referring now to and another embodiment of the method is illustrated that is substantially similar to the method described above with reference to but with some differences detailed below. At block of the method the content is provided on the user device via a user interface that in the illustrated embodiment includes a keyboard or a microphone on the user device . illustrates the user device subsequent to a user have either typed or spoken the phrase Hello my name is Miguel. Can you please tell me how to get to the Museum of Art using a keyboard e.g. a virtual keyboard on the display or microphone on the user device . In an embodiment the user device is operable to use techniques known in the art such as for example voice recognition techniques to receive a spoken phrase from the microphone on the user device and determine a text string corresponding to that spoken phrase. One example of the embodiment illustrated in may include a user of the user device traveling in a region in which the user is unfamiliar with the language and that user may need to communicate with a person who does not speak their native language.

At block of the method the text string corresponding to the typed or spoken phrase provided in block which is associated with a first region display mode as discussed above may be provided on the user device as a content screen that includes the text string . The method then proceeds to block as discussed above where the user reorients the user device from an orientation J illustrated in by rotating the user device in a direction K until the user device is in an orientation L illustrated in . As discussed above the orientation L may be a predefined orientation that is detected by an orientation detection device in the user device at block of the method .

At block of the method in response to detecting the predefined orientation the user device determines that a second region display mode is associated with the predefined orientation or orientation change provided by the user at block . As discussed above the user device may include settings that allow the user to set a second region display mode that is associated with the predefined orientation. For example the user may set the user device to a French language region display mode for use in response to the detection of the predefined orientation. As also discussed above the user device may include a location determination device e.g. a Global Positioning System GPS that the user instructs the user device to use to determine the second region display mode that will be associated with the predefined orientation. For example the user may set the user device to determine a current location of the user user device in response to the detection of the predefined orientation and that current location may be used to determine the second region display mode e.g. in the illustrated embodiment a current location may be Paris France resulting in the second region display mode being a French language region display mode. 

At block of the method the content is translated according to the second region display mode to produce translated content. As discussed above the user device may use techniques known in the art such as for example voice recognition techniques to determine that the spoken phrase provided by the user in block includes the text string in the content screen . The user device may then perform a translation operation on the text string either as provided by the user through a keyboard or determined by the user device using voice recognition techniques according to the second region display mode.

As discussed above the user device may include a translation engine that is operable to receive the content in a first language and translate that content to a second language. For example upon being set to a particular second region display mode the user device may retrieve and store a second region translation database that allows the user device to produce translated content in a language that is associated with the second region display mode from content that was provided in one or more different languages. In other embodiments the user device may be coupled over a network to the translation engine that is operable to receive the content in a first language and translate that content to a second language. For example upon detecting the predefined orientation the user device may send the content over a network to a device that includes the translation engine for translation and receive the translated content back.

At block of the method the translated content is displayed. illustrates a translated content screen that include a text string that has been translated from the English language text string of the content screen in to a French language. In an embodiment the structure of the content screen is maintained in the content screen with the size and positioning of the content screen and text string the same relative to the size and positioning of the content screen and text string . In an embodiment the user device may provide an audible version of the translated text string e.g. the user may speak an English phase that is used to provide the text string and the user device may translate that text string to a text string that is in a French language while also producing an audible reading of the text string from a speaker on the user device . Thus as can been seen in the method allows a user to quickly type or speak a phrase in their native language into the user device and have that phrase translated to a foreign language and in some embodiments audibly provided through a speaker in a foreign language by reorienting the user device . One application of this illustrated embodiment includes a mobile application on the user device for a user that is traveling in a foreign country and that allows the user to communicate with foreign speaking people in the foreign country by either typing or speaking phrases in their native language into the user device and then reorienting the user device to show the translated content or have the translated content produced in an audible form to the foreign speaking person.

Referring now to and another embodiment of the method is illustrated that is substantially similar to the method described above with reference to but with some differences detailed below. At block of the method the content is provided on the user device via a user interface that in the illustrated embodiment includes a virtual keyboard on the user device . illustrates the user device including an English Language virtual keyboard that a user has used to type the text string Hello. Can you tell me how to get to the airport One example of the embodiment illustrated in may include a user of the user device traveling in a region in which the user is unfamiliar with the language and that user may need to communicate with a person who does not speak their native language.

At block of the method the text string corresponding to the typed or spoken phrase provided in block which is associated with a first region display mode as discussed above is provided on the user device as a content screen that includes the text string . The method then proceeds to block as discussed above where the user reorients the user device from an orientation M illustrated in by rotating the user device in a direction N until the user device is in an orientation O illustrated in . As discussed above the orientation O may be a predefined orientation that is detected by an orientation detection device in the user device at block of the method .

At block of the method in response to detecting the predefined orientation the user device determines that a second region display mode is associated with the predefined orientation or orientation change provided by the user at block . As discussed above the user device may include settings that allow the user to set a second region display mode that is associated with the predefined orientation. For example the user may set the user device to a Hindi language region display mode for use in response to the detection of the predefined orientation. As also discussed above the user device may include a location determination device e.g. a Global Positioning System GPS that the user instructs the user device to use to determine the second region display mode that will be associated with the predefined orientation. For example the user may set the user device to determine a current location of the user user device in response to the detection of the predefined orientation and that current location may be used to determine the second region display mode e.g. in the illustrated embodiment a current location may be Hyderabad India resulting in the second region display mode being a Hindi language region display mode. 

At block of the method the content is translated according to the second region display mode to produce translated content. The user device may include a plurality of virtual keyboards associated with different languages and or may retrieve virtual keyboards associated with particular region display modes in response to the user device being set to that region display mode. At block the user device may retrieve a Hindi language keyboard . The user device may then perform a translation operation on the text string according to the second region display mode.

As discussed above the user device may include a translation engine that is operable to receive the content in a first language and translate that content to a second language. For example upon being set to a particular second region display mode the user device may retrieve and store a second region translation database that allows the user device to produce translated content in a language that is associated with the second region display mode from content that was provided in one or more different languages. In other embodiments the user device may be coupled over a network to the translation engine that is operable to receive the content in a first language and translate that content to a second language. For example upon detecting the predefined orientation the user device may send the content over a network to a device that includes the translation engine for translation and receive the translated content back.

At block of the method the translated content is displayed. illustrates a translated content screen that include a text string that has been translated from the English language text string of the content screen in to a Hindi language along with the Hindi language keyboard . In an embodiment the structure of the content screen and the English language keyboard is maintained in the content screen with the size and positioning of the English language keyboard and content screen the same relative to the size and positioning of the Hindi language keyboard and content screen . illustrates the content screen with a second text string that has been added to the content screen by a second user using the Hindi language keyboard . Thus as can been seen in the method allows a user to quickly type a phrase in their native language into the user device and have that phrase translated to a foreign language upon the reorientation of the user device . The user may then hand the user device to a second user who is presented with the translated phrase and a keyboard that is set to their native language so that they can reply e.g. as illustrated with the second text string . One of skill in the art will recognize tat this embodiment allows a conversation to be conducted between two users who speak different languages by simply reorienting the user device appropriately such that that conversation and keyboard are provided in the native language of the user currently communicating. One application of this illustrated embodiment includes a mobile application on the user device for a first user that is traveling in a foreign country and that allows the first user to communicate with a foreign speaking user in the foreign country by passing the user device back and forth with the foreign speaking user.

Thus a system and method for translating content is provided that allows a user to quickly and easily translate content provided to a user device by reorienting the user device to a predefined orientation. Translating content from a first region display mode to a second region display mode in response to reorientation of the user device provides an easy and intuitive method for using the user device to allow a user to understand content that is provided to them in a foreign language and or to communicate with others in a foreign country.

As discussed above while the examples provided have been directed to the translation of languages and currency the device orientation based translation system is not limited to only these embodiments. One of skill in the art will recognize that a variety of orientation based changes will fall within the scope of the present disclosure. In an embodiment a content screen may be modified upon reorientation of a user device to include color schemes images a reading direction etc. that may be based on the detected location of the user device. For example detection of a user device in a particular location associated with a college may cause the content screen to be modified with the school colors for that college. In another example detection of a user device in a particular location associated with a relatively conservative population may cause the content screen to replace images of people in bathing suits with images of people that full clothed. In another example text in a left to right reading format on a content screen may be reoriented to be read from right to left or from top to bottom when the user device is detected in a location where that is the norm.

Furthermore the region display modes may be associated with gaming applications and may utilize the orientation of the user device to display different content screens. For example a first region display mode may be associated with a beginning level difficulty of a gaming application while a second region display mode may be associated with an expert level difficulty of the gaming application and the user may reorient the user device to switch between those two difficulty levels quickly and easily. In another example a second region display mode in a gaming application may provide hidden content in the gaming application such that a user may be playing the game as normal in the first region display mode and reorient the user device to switch to the second region display mode to reveal hidden content that was not visible in the normal first region display mode i.e. the game may operate normally in both the first and second region display mode but with the hidden content only reveals upon reorientation of the user device. In another example or combined with one of the examples above a user may be required to reorient the user device to switch to the second region display mode in order to complete a level in the gaming application.

Referring now to an embodiment of a networked system that may be used in the content translation system described above is illustrated. The networked system may include includes a plurality of user devices a language translation device and a currency conversion device in communication over a network . Any of the user devices may be the user device discussed above. The language translation device may be the language translation devices discussed in the some of the embodiments detailed above in which the translations of content are performed external to the user device . The currency conversion device may be the currency conversion device discussed in some of the embodiments detailed above in which currencies are translated converted external to the user device .

The user device language translation device and or currency conversion device may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable mediums such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of the system and or accessible over the network .

The network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments the network may include the Internet and or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks.

The user devices may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example in one embodiment the user devices may be implemented as a personal computer of a user in communication with the Internet. In other embodiments the user devices may be a smart phone personal digital assistant PDA laptop computer and or other types of computing devices.

The user devices may include one or more browser applications which may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit the user to browse information available over the network . For example in one embodiment the browser application may be implemented as a web browser configured to view information available over the Internet.

The user devices may also include one or more toolbar applications which may be used for example to provide user side processing for performing desired tasks in response to operations selected by the user. In one embodiment the toolbar application may display a user interface in connection with the browser application.

The user devices may further include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide desired features to the user devices . In particular the other applications may include a payment application for payments assisted by a payment service provider. The other applications may also include security applications for implementing user side security features programmatic user applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over the network or other types of applications. Email and or text applications may also be included which allow the user to send and receive emails and or text messages through the network . The user devices include one or more user and or device identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with the browser application identifiers associated with hardware of the user devices or other appropriate identifiers such as a phone number. In one embodiment the user identifier may be used by a payment service provider device to associate the user with a particular account as further described herein.

The language translation device and or the currency conversion device may be maintained for example by an application developer. In this regard language translation device and or the currency conversion device may include databases for translating between a plurality of languages and or converting between a plurality of currencies.

Referring now to an embodiment of a user device is illustrated. The user device may be the user devices and or . The user device includes a chassis having a display and an input device including the display and a plurality of input buttons . One of skill in the art will recognize that the user device is a portable or mobile phone including a touch screen input device and a plurality of input buttons that allow the functionality discussed above with reference to the method . However a variety of other portable mobile payer devices and or desktop payer devices may be used in the method without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to an embodiment of a computer system suitable for implementing for example the user device the user device the user device the language translation device and or the currency conversion device is illustrated. It should be appreciated that other devices utilized by users language translation providers and currency conversion providers in the translation system discussed above may be implemented as the computer system in a manner as follows.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure computer system such as a computer and or a network server includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information which interconnects subsystems and components such as a processing component e.g. processor micro controller digital signal processor DSP etc. a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM a disk drive component e.g. magnetic or optical a network interface component e.g. modem or Ethernet card a display component e.g. CRT or LCD an input component e.g. keyboard keypad or virtual keyboard a cursor control component e.g. mouse pointer or trackball a camera a location determination component e.g. a Global Positioning System GPS device as illustrated a cell tower triangulation device and or a variety of other location determination devices known in the art and or an orientation determination component e.g. a gyroscope In one implementation the disk drive component may comprise a database having one or more disk drive components.

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure the computer system performs specific operations by the processor executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in the memory component such as described herein with respect to the user device and the language translation device and or the currency conversion device . Such instructions may be read into the system memory component from another computer readable medium such as the static storage component or the disk drive component . In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the present disclosure.

Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In one embodiment the computer readable medium is non transitory. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks such as the disk drive component volatile media includes dynamic memory such as the system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise the bus . In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read. In one embodiment the computer readable media is non transitory.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by the computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of the computer systems coupled by a communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

The computer system may transmit and receive messages data information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through the communication link and the network interface component . The network interface component may include an antenna either separate or integrated to enable transmission and reception via the communication link . Received program code may be executed by processor as received and or stored in disk drive component or some other non volatile storage component for execution.

Referring now to an embodiment of a user device translation device is illustrated. In an embodiment the device may be the user device and the language translation device the currency conversion device and or combinations thereof. The device includes a communication engine that is coupled to the network and to an translation engine that is coupled to each of a language translation database and a currency conversion database . The communication engine may be software or instructions stored on a computer readable medium that allows the device to send and receive information over the network . The translation engine may be software or instructions stored on a computer readable medium that is operable to receive content associated with a first region display mode and use the language translation database and or the currency conversion database to translate the content using a second region display mode to provide translated content. In an embodiment the translation engine may be operable to receive signals from the orientation determination component and determine when the predetermined orientation of the user device has been provided. In some embodiments the translation engine may be operable to perform character recognition techniques on images provided to the user device and may be operable to perform voice recognition techniques on audio files provided to the user device. While the databases and have been illustrated as located in the user device one of skill in the art will recognize that they may be connected to the translation engine through the network without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. For example the language translation database may be provided in the language translation device and the currency conversion database may be located in the currency conversion device .

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

