---

title: Systems and methods for messaging, calling, digital multimedia capture, payment transactions, global digital ledger, and national currency world digital token
abstract: Provided are computer implemented methods and systems for using a global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency. The method commences with receiving a transfer request. The transfer request is associated with an amount represented in tokens of the global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency. The transfer request includes at least a sender account, a recipient account, and the amount. The method continues with transferring the amount from the sender account to the recipient account based on the transfer request.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09406063&OS=09406063&RS=09406063
owner: 
number: 09406063
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20160210
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 815 988 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR MOBILE APPLICATION WEARABLE APPLICATION TRANSACTIONAL MESSAGING CALLING DIGITAL MULTIMEDIA CAPTURE AND PAYMENT TRANSACTIONS filed on Aug. 1 2015 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 034 509 entitled EFFICIENT TRANSACTIONAL MESSAGING BETWEEN LOOSELY COUPLED CLIENT AND SERVER OVER MULTIPLE INTERMITTENT NETWORKS WITH POLICY BASED ROUTING filed on Sep. 23 2013 which is continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 677 098 entitled EFFICIENT TRANSACTIONAL MESSAGING BETWEEN LOOSELY COUPLED CLIENT AND SERVER OVER MULTIPLE INTERMITTENT NETWORKS WITH POLICY BASED ROUTING filed on Sep. 30 2003 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 415 546 entitled DATA PROCESSING SYSTEM filed on Oct. 1 2002 which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This application relates generally to data processing and more specifically to global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency image token and ledger.

National currencies provide a system to define values within the borders of a country. However outside the borders of the country other values are effective and currency exchange depends on fluctuating exchange rates. With a globalization of economy and growth of international operations these inconveniencies become more outstanding interfere with retail transactions and add some level of dissatisfaction.

Additionally with the occurrence of peer to peer money transfer an ordinary person can participate in financial operations. An Internet connection allows performing transactions worldwide. However exchange costs banking costs and various fees related to transactions in physical currencies may be considerable.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Provided are computer implemented methods and systems for using a global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency. The system for using a global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency comprises at least one processor and a database in communication with the processor. The processor may be operable to receive a transfer request from a sender. The transfer request may include a sender account a recipient account an amount to be transferred and other data. The amount may be represented in tokens of the global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency. Based on the transfer request the amount is transferred from the sender account to the recipient account. Both the sender account and the recipient account are associated with the global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency so the transfer is performed without any commissions banking fees exchange fees and so forth. The database may be configured to store data related to the sender account and the recipient account and comprise computer readable instructions for execution by the processor.

In further exemplary embodiments modules subsystems or devices can be adapted to perform the recited steps. Other features and exemplary embodiments are described below.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the presented concepts. The presented concepts may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process operations have not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuration in the described concepts. While some concepts will be described in conjunction with the specific embodiments it will be understood that these embodiments are not intended to be limiting.

Various computer implemented methods and systems for using a global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency are described herein. Recent proliferation of mobile and wearable devices e.g. a mobile phone a smartphone a tablet personal computer a laptop a wearable personal digital device and other similar devices that are capable of transmitting and receiving data via a network allows implementing these methods and systems. Most users of mobile and wearable devices enjoy message communication with other users as well as performing and receiving payments using the mobile and wearable devices.

The methods and system of the present disclosure refer to a cross platform system for using a global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency for mobile and wearable devices. A cross platform application can be directly run on any platform without special preparation. In particular the cross platform system for using a global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency for mobile and wearable devices may run on Android iOS BlackBerry OS Symbian Windows Phone and so forth. The methods and systems for using the global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency for mobile and wearable devices of the present disclosure provide a way to avoid obstacles and expenses related to mobile peer to peer payments in international and domestic environment. A digital currency being the basis of the system for using the global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency for mobile and wearable devices enables worldwide peer to peer transactions between the users without banking commissions legal boundaries and currency exchange expenses.

The methods described herein may be performed by any mobile devices with wireless communication capabilities. In addition to being capable of transmitting voice based signals many modern cell phones have internet connectivity using cellular networks e.g. 3G 4G as well as Wi Fi and other types of networks. Some additional examples of such networks are described below with reference to . Wireless communication may be used to transmit retrieved product information to a payment server receive replies and transmit authorizations. Overall various data may be exchanged between the mobile and payment server as well as other servers during operations of the method.

Referring now to the drawings illustrates an environment within which a method and a system for using a global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency for mobile and wearable devices can be implemented. The environment includes a network a sender a sender digital device a recipient a recipient digital device a system for using a global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency for mobile and wearable devices a database and an encryption verification unit . The sender digital device and the recipient digital device include a mobile phone a laptop a personal computer PC a tablet PC a smart phone a wearable personal digital device a wearable eyeglass communication device and so forth.

The network includes the Internet or any other network capable of communicating data between devices. Suitable networks includes or interface with any one or more of for instance a local intranet PAN Personal Area Network a LAN Local Area Network a WAN Wide Area Network a MAN Metropolitan Area Network a virtual private network VPN a storage area network SAN a frame relay connection an Advanced Intelligent Network AIN connection a synchronous optical network SONET connection a digital T1 T3 E1 or E3 line Digital Data Service DDS connection DSL Digital Subscriber Line connection an Ethernet connection an ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network line a dial up port such as a V.90 V.34 or V.34bis analog modem connection a cable modem an ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode connection or an MEN Fiber Distributed Data Interface or CDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface connection. Furthermore communications may also include links to any of a variety of wireless networks including WAP Wireless Application Protocol GPRS General Packet Radio Service GSM Global System for Mobile Communication CDMA Code Division Multiple Access or TDMA Time Division Multiple Access cellular phone networks GPS Global Positioning System CDPD cellular digital packet data RIM Research in Motion Limited duplex paging network Bluetooth radio or an IEEE 802.11 based radio frequency network. The network can further include or interface with any one or more of an RS 232 serial connection an IEEE 1394 Firewire connection a Fiber Channel connection an IrDA infrared port a SCSI Small Computer Systems Interface connection a USB Universal Serial Bus connection or other wired or wireless digital or analog interface or connection mesh or Digi networking. The network includes a network of data processing nodes that are interconnected for the purpose of data communication.

The sender includes a person who transfers an amount to the recipient . The amount is associated with a digital currency. The sender specifies the amount to be transferred to the recipient and recipient data. Based on the amount and the recipient data a transfer request is formed and sent to the system . The transfer request may be associated with one or more of a transactional payment based on Unstructured Supplementary Service Data USSD Short Message Service SMS direct operator billing a credit card mobile payment an online wallet a Quick Response QR code payment contactless near field communication payments a cloud based mobile payment an audio signal based payment a Bluetooth Low Energy BLE signal beacon payment an in application payment a Software Development Kit SDK payment an Application Programming Interface API payment a social networking payment and a direct carrier and bank co operation.

The system processes the transfer request and transfers the amount from a sender account to the recipient account. The encryption verification unit encrypts data associated with the transfer request and the transfer.

In some embodiments the network may include a codebase. A node on the network may receive a message informing about a new transaction and verification that transaction follows the rules of the network may be performed. If the transaction is valid the transaction may be added to a current My Block message. The message may be serialized to binary hashed and then the node may make an RPC to token telling it what the current extra hash is. When token finds a token format block of the right difficulty for the network it may pass the code block header token base transaction and merkle branch to it. The node may combine them together into a Data message which may be then glued together with an alternative chains code block. This super code block may be then broadcast via an independent P2P network. When the node on a new network receives a super code block it may do the following things verify if My Block contents are correct i.e. that the transactions follow the rules verify if My Block previous hash makes it fit in the code block file chain and that the difficulty is correct hash My Block structure and then verify that this hash appears in the Database scriptSig in the right place extract the merkle root of the token format block from the header and then verify that the base tx provided did in fact exist in that code block using the branch root tx and header together verify that the hash of the format block header is below the difficulty found in My Block structure.

The system may further include a code block file chain not shown . The code block file chain may include a transaction database shared by all nodes participating in the system . Token transactions may be permanently recorded in the code block file chain. Approximately six ten times per hour a group of accepted transactions a code block may be added to the code block file chain which may be quickly published to all network nodes. This allows determining when a particular token amount has been spent for preventing double spends in a peer to peer environment with no central authority. Whereas a conventional ledger records the transfers of actual bills or promissory notes that exist apart from the ledger the code block file chain may be the only place that tokens can be said to exist. In order to independently verify the chain of ownership of any and every token amount full featured token software may store its own copy of the code block file chain.

The code block file chain may include a transaction database shared by all nodes participating in the system based on the same protocol. A full copy of the code block file chain may contain every token transaction ever executed. With this information one can find out how much value belonged to each address at any point in history.

Every code block may contain a hash of a previous code block. This may have the effect of creating a chain of code blocks from a genesis code block to a current code block. Each code block may be guaranteed to come after a previous code block chronologically because the hash of the previous code block would otherwise not be known. Each code block may also be computationally impractical to modify once it has been in the code block file chain for a while because every subsequent code block would also have to be regenerated. These properties may make double spending of tokens very difficult.

In some embodiments one may build onto a code block by referencing the code block in code blocks that are create if the code block is the latest code block in the longest valid code block file chain. Length may be calculated as total combined difficulty of the code block file chain not the number of code blocks. The code block file chain may be valid if all of the code blocks and transactions within the code block file chain are valid and only if the code block file chain starts with a genesis code block.

In some embodiments for any code block on the chain there may be only one path to a genesis code block. Coming from the genesis code block however there may be forks. One code block forks may be created from time to time when two code blocks are created just a few seconds apart. When that happens generating nodes may build onto whichever one of the code blocks they received first. Whichever code block ends up being included in the next code block may become a part of the main chain because that chain is longer.

In some embodiments code blocks in shorter chains or invalid chains may not be used for anything. When the system switches to another longer chain all valid transactions of the code blocks inside the shorter chain may be re added to the pool of queued transactions and may be included in another code block. The reward for the code blocks on the shorter chain may not be present in the longest chain so they may be practically lost which is why a network enforced block maturation time for generations may exist.

In some embodiments because a code block can only reference one previous code block it is impossible for two forked chains to merge.

In some embodiments it is possible to use the code block file chain algorithm for non financial purposes.

Furthermore the currency token may use a standard hashing function over a document. A digital signature converted document may generate a public hash that can be cryptographically proven to have originated from a specific document uploaded by a specific person at a specific time. By uploading the resulting character hash with a tiny transaction on the currency token code block file chain the proof of that document origin and ownership may exist as long as the currency token does. It can be instantly and securely verified and the proof is impossible to erase or change.

In some embodiments tokens may allow storing assets on the code block file chain. A user may have an IPO Initial Public Offering on the code block file chain by issuing shares as tokens and send the tokens to shareholders. The shares may then be traded almost instantaneously and for free through the code block file chain. Smart properties may be represented by tokens. One may store a house on the code block file chain by issuing a single token then the ownership of the house may be transferred with a simple code block file chain transaction.

In some embodiments an alternative code block file chain may be provided. The alternative code block file chain may include a system using a code block file chain algorithm to achieve distributed consensus on a particular topic. The alternative code block file chain may share token holders with a parent network such as a code block file chain network this is called merged tokening. The alternative code block file chain may implement DNS P2P currency exchanges SSL certificate authorities time stamping file storage and voting systems.

The code block file chain may acts as a transaction database shared by all nodes participating in a system based on the system protocol. A full copy of the code block file chain may contain every transaction ever executed in the global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency. Thus the system may retrieve information on how much value belonged to each address at any point in history. Additionally a private messaging protocol may be used to share distributed information. The simplest currency token private messaging protocol may be an encryption library.

In some embodiments the code block file chain is broadcast to all nodes on the networking using a flood protocol.

In some embodiments the code block file chain may include a shared public ledger on which the entire network may rely. The shared public ledger may include a principal digital book or computer file for recording and totaling token transactions with debits and credits in separate columns and a beginning monetary balance and ending monetary balance for each account. The shared public ledger may include a permanent summary of all amounts entered in supporting journals which may list individual transactions by date. Every transaction may flow from a journal to one or more shared public ledgers. The shared public ledgers may include digital sales ledger that may record accounts receivable digital purchase ledger that may record money spent for purchasing digital general ledger representing five main account types assets liabilities income expenses and equity. These may all be included in the shared public ledger. A copy of the shared public ledger is accessible from a client device of the user.

For every debit recorded in the shared public ledger there may be a corresponding credit so that the debits equal the credits in the grand totals.

In some embodiments all confirmed transactions may be included in the code block file chain. This way token wallets may calculate spendable balance and new transactions may be verified to be spending tokens that may be actually owned by a spender. The integrity and the chronological order of the code block file chain may be enforced with cryptography.

In some embodiments a transaction may include a transfer of value between token wallets that may be included in the code block file chain. Token wallets may keep a secret piece of data using a private key which may be used to sign transactions providing a mathematical proof that they come from the owner of a wallet. The signature also may prevent the transaction from being altered by anybody once the transaction has been issued. All transactions may be broadcast between users and usually begin to be confirmed by the network.

In some embodiments token wallets may use JavaScript in a browser to manage private keys and create payments. A user may actually own private keys inside the token wallet. This approach has several advantages. The user may look up his account balance in the code block file chain. The user may easily export his private keys out of the token wallet to use with another token client or wallet provider. The private keys may be stored encrypted on a server offering protection for security breaches if strongly encrypted. As each address may have only one user it may be less likely that misguided attempts to return tokens to their last sent to address will result in loss of tokens.

In some embodiments the code block file chain may be a distributed transaction processing engine enabling direct operations between client devices. The distributed transaction processing engine may keep track of currency token. The currency token code block file chain may allow for data to be stored in a variety of different places while tracking the relationship between different parties to that data. Additionally this enables tracking relationships between devices between a user and a device and even between two devices with the consent of a user.

In some embodiments the global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency may be provided collectively at a rate which is bounded by a value both prior defined and publicly known. In centralized banking and economic systems such as the Federal Reserve System governments control the value of currency by printing units of fiat money or demanding additions to digital banking ledgers. However governments cannot produce units of the global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency and as such governments cannot provide backing for firms banks or corporate entities which hold asset value measured in a decentralized global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency. Within the system for using global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency the safety integrity and balance of all ledgers may be maintained by a community of mutually distrustful parties referred to as a token provider and token holders members of the general public who allow their idle computers to help validate and process transactions.

In some embodiments tokens may include money of a specific form such as coins. In contrast to account money tokens may be used in circulation as are paper notes.

Token may have a strong privacy feature in that tokens may work as money without the intervention of any other party in each transaction between two parties. Privacy makes money safe from interference by more powerful third parties. Where property rights are not strong privacy may be required to protect assets and permit trade and tokens work well in this regime.

In some embodiments tokens may have certain hybrid forms one of which may be blinded coins which is a form of financial cryptography used to achieve privacy and thus safety in token transactions over the Internet. In this form a digital packet may include a token that can be passed from one user to another user over a mobile or wireless network. However to defend against infinite copying the token should be rolled over at a server in an exchange for a fresh coin. Therefore this form of tokens may be a simulation of physical tokens as they may permit traffic analysis.

In some embodiments another simulation of tokens may be a smart card or electronic payment card. The smart card or electronic payment card may include a token that can be carried and the tokens may be on the card. Smart card systems may employ sophisticated tracking software in order to ensure the safety of the system and privacy of transactions.

In some embodiments principles of financial cryptography may be used in applications in which financial loss could result from subversion of the message system specifically a cyber code blinded signature may be used. This special form of a cryptographic signature may permit tokens to be signed without the signer seeing the actual token and may permit a form of digital currency that offer untraceability.

The financial cryptography may include mechanisms and algorithms necessary for the protection of global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency transfers. Proof of work and various auction protocols may fall under the umbrella of financial cryptography.

The financial cryptography may include seven distinct disciplines cryptography software engineering rights accounting governance value and financial applications. Payment transaction failures may often be traced to the absence of one or more of these disciplines or to poor application of them.

In some embodiments users e.g. the sender and recipient may customize the representation of the tokens using images. For example the user may provide his image to be depicted on a 100 unit token. The images for token customizing may include an image of a sender face an image of a public figure an image of a movie character and so forth.

In some embodiments the sender and recipient may provide each other their data using barcodes displayed on a screen of their devices. For example the recipient instead of notifying his account number may cause the barcode encoding his account number to be generated and shown on the screen of his device. The sender may scan the displayed barcode using a camera of the sender device. The barcode is read to extract the recipient account. Similarly the sender account and the payment amount may be encoded in a barcode on the sender device. The barcode may be shown on the screen of the sender device. The recipient may scan the barcode to extract the sender account and the amount.

At operation the method continues with transferring by the at least one processor the amount of the transfer request from the sender account to the recipient account based on the transfer request. The amount may be transferred without a commission or other fees. The transferring may be visualized with the customized representation of tokens. The visualizing may include representing the amount in a national currency wherein the national currency is predefined by the user.

In various embodiments the transferring via the system may include transactional payments based on Unstructured Supplementary Service Data USSD Short Message Service SMS direct operator billing credit card mobile payments prepaid card payments online wallets QR code payments contactless near field communication cloud based mobile payments audio signal based payments Bluetooth Low Energy BLE signal beacon payments in application payments software development kit SDK payments application programming interface API payments social networking payments direct carrier bank co operation and the like.

The sender account and the recipient account may be accessed via a virtual wallet interface or a cloud server. In an example embodiment the sender and or recipient may be authorized in the system by swiping a finger across a touchscreen of the mobile and wearable device associated with the sender or recipient.

Additionally access to the system may be protected by a password a Personal Identification Number PIN code biometric authorization and so forth. The biometric authorization may include fingerprint scanning palm scanning face scanning retina scanning and s forth.

In an example embodiment verification of the sender face may be performed to prevent an identity theft. For example the image of the sender face may be taken by a camera of the sender digital device associated with the sender. The captured image of sender face may be recognized and compared to those stored on the sender digital device associated with the sender. In an example embodiment the camera may recognize the sender face without capturing the image.

Biometrics may be used to recognize and match unique patterns in human faces. In an example embodiment when a sender registers in the system an image of the sender face may be provided to the system and is linked to the sender account in the system . The sender account may be linked to a payment account i.e. a banking account a credit card a debit card and so forth of the sender. To initiate a payment in a point of sale the sender may access a barcode needed to complete a transaction from the sender account. The barcode may also contain the image of the sender face. Therefore the barcode and the sender face may be a way of representing information. The barcode may be displayed on a display of the sender digital device. After the recipient at the point of sale scans the barcode the image of the sender face may appear on a screen associated with a point of sale system. The recipient may use that image to verify the sender and complete the transaction.

A sender face on the global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency and face verification feature may have enhance security of transactions with the global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency.

In an example embodiment the global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency may be a digital equivalent of virtual cash with the sender face both for sender prestige and verification of sender identity. The data related to the global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency may be stored on devices associated with the sender recipient and on a remote server. The global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency may be associated with one or more real currencies. Thus the system may determine equivalent value in the global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency and in the one or more real currencies.

Referring back to the the method may optionally include an operation . At the operation the processor may receive a deposit to the sender account or the recipient account via a cash in automatic transaction machine ATM a bank transfer or a transfer from another account using the global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency. If the deposit is made in a national currency or any other currency other than the global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency the deposit amount may be automatically converted in the global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency before crediting the deposit to the sender account or the recipient account.

The global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency is a decentralized universal digital currency based on peer to peer internet protocol. In the basis of the global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency is a public ledger that provides authentication clearing and settlement. The global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency is issued and managed via mobile devices or mobile networks. Payments in the global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency are protected by a digital signature and a password. The password can be in a form of an alphanumeric character a voice a scrambled image a video clip a gesture of any part of a body. The password may be entered by means of a touch screen a keyboard a mouse or a camera of a device or by means of a remote control of the device.

In a further example embodiment the global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency includes an encrypted currency also referred to as cryptocurrency. The encrypted currency is encrypted using principles of cryptography being a technology used in online banking. Unlike fiat currency with central banks and online banking the encrypted currency discussed herein is created using peer reviewed cryptographic ciphers thus removing the need to trust a central authority. Thus transfer of the encrypted currency does not require trust of any third party.

In some embodiments the method may further comprise executing currency exchange transaction between a national currency provider and a token provider. The national currency provider and token provider directly or through an authorized mandated representative may conclude a private currencies exchange agreement. The token provider may open a multicurrency bank account for the purpose of currency exchange transaction. The national currency provider may provide to the token provider necessary documents for the multicurrency bank account opening. The currency exchange transaction may start as per the agreed schedule immediately following the activation of the multicurrency bank account. The national currency provider may transfer daily the face value of each scheduled tranche less the discount to the multicurrency bank account. The token provider may execute the exchange immediately when the funds are received on the multicurrency bank account. The balance of the face value may include a bonus to the token provider intermediary commission and discount. This way fees may be paid after the performance of the token provider.

In certain embodiments the processor may be configured to visualize the transfer request on a screen of a client device associated with a sender. The visualized transfer request may be scannable by a Point of Sale POS system.

The transferring includes a transaction performed within a country and an international transaction. Thus the sender and the recipient may be located in different countries and may be citizens of different countries. Transactions in the global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency eliminate boundaries and expenses associated with national currencies and facilitate international payments.

In some embodiments the transfer request may be associated with a real currency amount. The real currency amount may be converted in the amount represented in the tokens of the global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency.

The system further comprises a database comprising computer readable instructions for execution by the one or more processors .

In some embodiments the system may include a camera operable to scan and read a barcode from a screen of the digital device. The barcode may include electronic key data a link to a web resource a payment request advertising information and other information wherein one or more barcodes include a linear dimensional code a two dimensional code a snap tag code a QR code and other machine readable codes.

Additionally the system may be adapted to enable a Bluetooth low energy payment and is compatible with a third party application.

In some embodiments the system may further comprise an external device to manage at least the data of the payments.

In some embodiments the recipient may request to customize the received amount using at least image of the recipient . For example as a result of the customization the sender face is replaced with a recipient face.

In further embodiments the transfer may be free of charge for users within the system for using a global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency while a predefined commission may be set for users outside the system for using a global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency.

The recipient digital device and the sender digital device may communicate with the system for using a global world universal digital mobile and wearable currency via a network . The network may be also used for communication among various components of the system .

Token production may begin with chip manufacturing . At this step a chip may be programmed with information relating to a monetary value denomination serial number and other manufacturing information. The information programmed into the chip may be used to generate a manifest. The manifest may be updated with information relating to the status of each chip produced in series. After the chip manufacturing process is completed the chips and associated manifest may be provided to a tag manufacturer .

The tag manufacturer may receive the chips and the associated manifest . The manifest may be in an electronic form that is readable by any computer system such as a CD DVD flash memory stick and the like. The tag manufacturer may then update and modify the manifest during the manufacturing process of producing tags. In this way the manifest may comprise historical information about each tag. At each stage of the manufacturing process the manifest may be updated with information regarding each stage and with information regarding the token and sub parts. Once the tag manufacturer has completed the manufacturing process both the tags and the updated manifest may be sent to token manufacturer for further processing.

The token manufacturer may then begin the process of producing a token with the proper face value and ornamental structure. The ornamental structure may include a color scheme texture look and feel or other distinguishing characteristics of the token. The manifest may include image files showing the appearance of the token. The token may have a color scheme and currency value either printed on or molded into the token. After the token manufacturing is completed the token may be provided to a token holder .

Within the environment a token requestor may place a request for a security token at the token issuing authority . This security token may be required to communicate and request access to a service provided by a token consumer who accepts the security token. The token requestor may be a partner of the token issuing authority which may be registered with the token issuing authority . The token requestor may be an end user and may be registered with the token issuing authority . The token issuing authority may receive and process a security token request and returns the security token as follows authenticate the input credentials authorize the security token request based on a token issuance policy that specifies which token requestors are authorized to request a security token for a given token consumer. The token consumer typically a service provider may accept the security token as part of the service request and provide service based on the validity of the input security token and validate the input security token with the token issuing authority .

In some embodiments the system may have a network of gateways built on top of token. The gateways may be technology driven companies in an open ecosystem. Every entity on the network may have a payment address that resembles an email address. To pay on a site the user may provide the payment address. The merchant gateway may then request funds from the gateway of the user which the user may authorize via a push notification on his client device.

Thus human readable names for example alice cad gateway.com may facilitate remembering the payment address. Behind the scenes system may use global currency image token addresses for communication.

The example computer system includes a processor or multiple processors e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system may also include an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a computer readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. instructions embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processors during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory and the processors may also constitute machine readable media.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP .

While the computer readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term computer readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that causes the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present application or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such a set of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical and magnetic media and carrier wave signals. Such media may also include without limitation hard disks floppy disks flash memory cards digital video disks random access memory RAMs read only memory ROMs and the like.

The example embodiments described herein may be implemented in an operating environment comprising software installed on a computer in hardware or in a combination of software and hardware.

Thus various systems and methods for facilitating mobile and wearable device payments and multimedia transfer have been described. Although embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the system and method described herein. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

