---

title: Systems and methods for configuring media devices utilizing audio codes or signatures
abstract: Example systems and methods for configuring media devices utilizing audio codes and/or signatures are disclosed. Example methods disclosed herein include determining a characteristic of audio data received by a device, the characteristic including at least one of a code detected in the audio data or a signature generated from the audio data. Disclosed example methods also include determining whether the characteristic is mapped to at least one of a first command or a second command. Disclosed example methods further include, in response to determining the characteristic is mapped to the first command, executing the first command to cause the device to connect to a communication session to receive an upgrade to software executable on the device, and in response to determining the characteristic is mapped to the second command, executing the second command to cause a previously locked feature of the device to be unlocked.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09635403&OS=09635403&RS=09635403
owner: The Nielsen Company (US), LLC
number: 09635403
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160317
---
This patent arises from a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 467 781 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 292 251 entitled Systems and Methods for Configuring Media Devices Utilizing Audio Codes or Signatures and filed on Aug. 25 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 657 430 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 826 316 entitled Systems and Methods for Configuring Media Devices Utilizing Audio Codes or Signatures and filed on Oct. 22 2012. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 467 781 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 657 430 are hereby incorporated by reference in their respective entireties.

The present disclosure is directed to processor based audience analytics and media terminal device control. More specifically the disclosure describes systems and methods for controlling the configuration and operation of terminal media devices such as set top boxes STBs using encoded audio and or audio signatures.

There is considerable interest in monitoring and measuring the usage of media data accessed by an audience via radio satellite network or other source. In order to determine audience interest and what audiences are being presented with a user s system may be monitored for discrete time periods while connected to a network such as the Internet. There is also considerable interest in providing market information to advertisers media distributors and the like which reveal the demographic characteristics of such audiences along with information concerning the size of the audience. Further advertisers and media distributors would like the ability to produce custom reports tailored to reveal market information within specific parameters such as type of media user demographics purchasing habits and so on. In addition there is substantial interest in the ability to monitor media audiences on a continuous real time basis.

In addition to audience measurement there has developed an increased interest in being able to remotely configure terminal devices such as set top boxes STBs to suit the needs of the measuring entity. As STBs become more sophisticated devices users are able to use them much in the same way they use home computers laptops tablets and the like. The growing popularity of Internet Protocol television IPTV has created additional possibilities in home media consumption and media measurement. Briefly IPTV is a system through which television and or other services are delivered using the Internet protocol suite over a packet switched network such as the Internet instead of or in addition to being delivered through traditional terrestrial satellite signal and cable television formats. Typically IPTV services include a live television with or without interactivity related to the current TV show b time shifted television i.e. replaying a TV show that was broadcast previously and c video on demand VOD that allows access to a catalog of videos not related to TV programming. Since a STB network connection is present additional media such as streaming audio or radio web pages may be received in the STB As well.

While current technology allows STBs to be configured at a customer premises more recent technology allows STBs to be configured remotely to include software updates new programming or additional services. However this current technology is performed almost exclusively through a data connection that is not scalable across different platforms and makes it tedious for content providers to give users access to additional content and or functionalities on their respective STBs. Accordingly there is a need for new and or additional techniques for configuring STBs and other media devices remotely. By opening media device configuration to other platforms new functionalities may be enabled that give users flexibility in configuring their devices while giving media measurement entities new formats for determining media consumption.

The term data as used herein means any indicia signals marks symbols domains symbol sets representations and any other physical form or forms representing information whether permanent or temporary whether visible audible acoustic electric magnetic electromagnetic or otherwise manifested. The term data as used to represent predetermined information in one physical form shall be deemed to encompass any and all representations of corresponding information in a different physical form or forms.

The terms media data and media as used herein mean data which is widely accessible whether over the air or via cable satellite network internetwork including the Internet print displayed distributed on storage media or by any other means or technique that is humanly perceptible without regard to the form or content of such data and including but not limited to audio video audio video text images animations databases broadcasts displays including but not limited to video displays posters and billboards signs signals web pages print media and streaming media data.

The term research data as used herein means data comprising 1 data concerning usage of media data 2 data concerning exposure to media data and or 3 market research data.

The term ancillary code as used herein means data encoded in added to combined with or embedded in media data to provide information identifying describing and or characterizing the media data and or other information useful as research data.

The terms reading and read as used herein mean a process or processes that serve to recover research data that has been added to encoded in combined with or embedded in media data.

The term database as used herein means an organized body of related data regardless of the manner in which the data or the organized body thereof is represented. For example the organized body of related data may be in the form of one or more of a table a map a grid a packet a datagram a frame a file an e mail a message a document a report a list or in any other form.

The term network as used herein includes both networks and internetworks of all kinds including the Internet and is not limited to any particular network or inter network.

The terms first second primary and secondary are used to distinguish one element set data object step process function activity or thing from another and are not used to designate relative position or arrangement in time or relative importance unless otherwise stated explicitly.

The terms coupled coupled to and coupled with as used herein each mean a relationship between or among two or more devices apparatus files circuits elements functions operations processes programs media components networks systems subsystems and or means constituting any one or more of a a connection whether direct or through one or more other devices apparatus files circuits elements functions operations processes programs media components networks systems subsystems or means b a communications relationship whether direct or through one or more other devices apparatus files circuits elements functions operations processes programs media components networks systems subsystems or means and or c a functional relationship in which the operation of any one or more devices apparatus files circuits elements functions operations processes programs media components networks systems subsystems or means depends in whole or in part on the operation of any one or more others thereof.

The terms communicate and communicating and as used herein include both conveying data from a source to a destination and delivering data to a communications medium system channel network device wire cable fiber circuit and or link to be conveyed to a destination and the term communication as used herein means data so conveyed or delivered. The term communications as used herein includes one or more of a communications medium system channel network device wire cable fiber circuit and link.

The term processor as used herein means processing devices apparatus programs circuits components systems and subsystems whether implemented in hardware tangibly embodied software or both and whether or not programmable. The term processor as used herein includes but is not limited to one or more computers hardwired circuits signal modifying devices and systems devices and machines for controlling systems central processing units programmable devices and systems field programmable gate arrays application specific integrated circuits systems on a chip systems comprised of discrete elements and or circuits state machines virtual machines data processors processing facilities and combinations of any of the foregoing.

The terms storage and data storage as used herein mean one or more data storage devices apparatus programs circuits components systems subsystems locations and storage media serving to retain data whether on a temporary or permanent basis and to provide such retained data.

Accordingly apparatuses systems and methods are disclosed for computer implemented techniques for modifying operation of a media terminal device. Under one exemplary embodiment audio is received in the media terminal device and processed to obtain a characteristic of the audio wherein the characteristic comprises at least one of i ancillary code embedded in the audio and ii an audio signature extracted from the audio. Next it is determined if the characteristic corresponds to a predetermined characteristic wherein the predetermined characteristic is linked to a command. If the characteristic is determined to correspond to the predetermined characteristic the command is executed wherein the executed command modifies an operational parameter of the media terminal device.

Under another exemplary embodiment data is received from a media terminal device wherein the data comprises a characteristic of audio received in the media terminal device the characteristic comprising at least one of i ancillary code decoded from the audio and ii an audio signature extracted from audio. The data is processed to determine if the characteristic corresponds to a predetermined characteristic wherein the predetermined characteristic is linked to a command. If the characteristic is determined to correspond to the predetermined characteristic the command is transmitted to the media terminal device and configured to modify an operational parameter of the media terminal device.

Under another exemplary embodiment a media terminal device is disclosed comprising an input for receiving audio a processing apparatus coupled to the input for processing a characteristic of the audio wherein the characteristic comprises at least one of i ancillary code embedded in the audio and ii an audio signature extracted from the audio wherein the processing apparatus is configured to determine if the characteristic corresponds to a predetermined characteristic wherein the predetermined characteristic is linked to a command and wherein the processing apparatus is configured to execute the command if the characteristic is determined to correspond to the predetermined characteristic wherein the executed command modifies an operational parameter of the media terminal device.

Various embodiments of the present invention will be described herein below with reference to the accompanying drawings. In the following description well known functions or constructions are not described in detail since they would obscure the invention in unnecessary detail. Under an exemplary embodiment a system is implemented in a Set Top Box STB that may be configured to gather research data using encoding technology e.g. CBET concerning exposure of a user of the STB to audio and or visual media. One example of such a device is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 724 070 titled Set Top Box with Integrated Encoder Decoder for Audience Measurement filed Mar. 15 2010 assigned to the assignee of the present application and is incorporated by reference in its entirety herein. Generally speaking a STB in the present disclosure relates to any consumer electronic devices capable to receive media video content including digital video broadcast DVB standards and present the content to a user. In the case of video content the development of IP networks and broadband ADSL allow video content of good quality to be delivered as Internet Protocol television IPTV in the set top boxes. Digital television may be delivered under a variety of DVB Digital Video Broadcast standards such as DVB DVB S DVB S2 DVB C DVB T and DVB T2. The STBs may accept content from terrestrial satellite cable and or streaming media via IP network. Other types of media content may include static or interactive content such as web pages.

An exemplary STB comprises a frontend which includes a tuner and a DVB demodulator. The frontend receives a raw signal from antenna or cable and the signal is converted by the frontend into transport MPEG stream. Satellite equipment control SEC may also be provided in the case of satellite antenna setup. Additionally a conditional access CA module or smartcard slot is provided to perform real time decoding of encrypted transport stream. Demuxer filters incoming DVB stream and splits a transport stream into video and audio parts. The transport stream can contain some special streams like teletext or subtitles. Video and audio streams are preferably separated.

Turning to an exemplary system is disclosed illustrating an end to end view of a media delivery network where content may be delivered in a variety of formats including satellite digitally encoded local programming A V on demand server and off air programming . In one embodiment this content is provided to a content aggregator that is responsible for distributing the content to a managed IP network which in turn is connected to a broadband access network . From here the content is provided to individual preferably networked households in an in home network . In an alternate embodiment certain content such as satellite and digitally encoded local programming may be conventionally broadcast over the air via satellite coaxial cable and the like. The system network of may be thought of as being similar to the public Internet except that it is a managed network. Content is delivered to STBs in home network similar to the way a streaming video is sent to a PC. However because the network is managed including the access portion of the network video QoE may be maintained at a broadcast level rather than a best effort basis like the public Internet. Content may be delivered under the HomePNA standard via coaxial cable or telephone line.

Turning to the exemplary embodiment in a more detailed illustration of a STB is shown. Here a CPU controls and or communicates directly indirectly with demultiplexer decoder modem card reader memory video digital to analog converter DAC audio DAC and digital signal processing DSP circuitry . While tuner receives media from source signal modem accepts interactive or other data received from a computer based network. Card reader accepts smart cards and or cable cards for identifying a user and for allowing the user to further interact with the set top box either alone or in conjunction with user inputs which may be a keyboard infrared device track ball etc. A peripheral audio capture device or microphone is configured to capture ambient or direct audio in STB .

In one exemplary embodiment a source signal is received and tuner down converts the incoming carrier to an intermediate frequency IF . The IF signal is demodulated into in phase I and quadrature phase Q carrier components which are then A D converted into a plurality of multi bit data streams e.g. 6 bit for digital demodulation and subsequent processing such as forward error correction FEC in which the Reed Solomon check correction de interleaving and Viterbi decoding are carried out. A resulting transport stream is then forwarded to demultiplexer which has responsibility for transmitting signals to respective video and audio MPEG decoders .

Decoder is responsible for composing a continuous moving picture from the received frames from demultiplexer . Additionally decoder performs necessary data expansion inverse DCT interpolation and error correction. The reconstituted frames may be built up inside the decoder s DRAM not show or may also use memory . Decoder outputs a pulse train containing the necessary A V data e.g. Y Cr and Cb values for the pixels in the picture which is communicated to video DAC for conversion and possible PAL encoding if necessary .

In addition decoder forwards audio DAC for conversion and for presenting the audio L R and or video to media device . Additionally DSP may process audio from decoder to read codes and or extract audio signatures that may be subsequently stored in memory . In certain embodiments DSP may comprise a chip circuitry or a device coupled with STB such as a peripheral device or a board such as a soundboard. In certain embodiments the board may be plugged into an expansion slot of the STB. In certain embodiments DSP is programmable such that it is provided with decoding and or signature extracting software prior to coupling with the user system or after coupling with the user system. In these embodiments the decoding software is loaded from a storage device or from the audio source or another source or via another communication system or medium.

In one embodiment DSP comprises a decoder serving to decode ancillary data embedded in audio signals in order to detect codes that may be used to configure STB as well as signify exposure to media. Examples of techniques for encoding and decoding such ancillary data are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 871 180 titled Decoding of Information in Audio Signals issued Mar. 22 2005 and is incorporated by reference in its entirety herein. Other suitable techniques for encoding decoding data in audio are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 640 141 to Ronald S. Kolessar and U.S. Pat. No. 5 764 763 to James M. Jensen et al. which are incorporated by reference in their entirety herein. Other appropriate encoding techniques are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 579 124 to Aijala et al. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 574 962 5 581 800 and 5 787 334 to Fardeau et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 450 490 to Jensen et al. each of which is assigned to the assignee of the present application and all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

An audio signal which may be encoded with a plurality of code symbols is received via microphone or via a direct link through audio circuitry . The received audio signal may be from streaming media broadcast otherwise communicated signal or a signal reproduced from storage in a device. It may be a direct coupled or an acoustically coupled signal. From the following description in connection with the accompanying drawings it will be appreciated that the decoder is capable of detecting codes in addition to those arranged in the formats disclosed hereinabove.

Alternately or in addition DSP can processes the frequency domain audio data to extract a signature therefrom i.e. data expressing information inherent to an audio signal for use in configuring STB as well as identifying the audio signal or obtaining other information concerning the audio signal such as a source or distribution path thereof . Suitable techniques for extracting signatures include those disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 612 729 to Ellis et al. and in U.S. Pat. No. 4 739 398 to Thomas et al. both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties. Still other suitable techniques are the subject of U.S. Pat. No. 2 662 168 to Scherbatskoy U.S. Pat. No. 3 919 479 to Moon et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 697 209 to Kiewit et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 677 466 to Lert et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 512 933 to Wheatley et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 955 070 to Welsh et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 918 730 to Schulze U.S. Pat. No. 4 843 562 to Kenyon et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 450 551 to Kenyon et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 230 990 to Lert et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 594 934 to Lu et al. European Published Patent Application EP 0887958 to Bichsel PCT Publication WO02 11123 to Wang et al. and PCT publication WO91 11062 to Young et al. all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties. As discussed above the code detection and or signature extraction serve to configure STB and or identify and determine media exposure for the user of STB .

Turning to an exemplary system is shown illustrating configuration data and content delivery from content delivery network CDN to STB via access network . In this embodiment CDN comprises a CDN information portion for communicating CDN structure information to STB and a platform information PF portion for communicating platform structure information to STB via access network . This information may provide parameter data of CDN and PF configuration data respectively. A key purpose of this data is to supply entry data to each service. CDN structure information may define the fixed data for the CDN and the fixed data for each platform provider configured on the CDN. PF structure information may define the fixed data for the platform provider and the fixed data for each service provider configured on the platform. When a STB initially connects to system it preferably obtains CDN structure information and PF structure information to enable it to receive the services of all the platform providers and service providers included on the CDN of the access point. This information may be used to establish content format and transmission format including data encoding e.g. video encoding AVC MPEG 2 audio encoding AAC LC MPEG 1 L2 etc. streaming transmission and reception broadcast service channel selection video on demand VOD streaming service content browser and multimedia encoding authentication and other functions.

Metadata portion is configured to deliver metadata necessary for functions such as selecting channels of a broadcast service and display electronic program guides EPGs and or electronic content guides ECGs . STB is preferably configured to obtain and update necessary metadata either by multicast or unicast. A conditional access system CAS and digital rights management DRM portion may be configured to issue and manage licenses and may deliver licenses by establishing a secure communication channel between the STB and CAS DRM . Under a preferred embodiment STB accesses CAS DRM to obtain a license when it is time to play content. Portal is preferably configured to provide web services and interactive content as a means for promotion and content navigation. Portal may also be utilized various kinds of registration screens and authentication processes by linking with customer and contract management functions where STB may access portal as a subscriber. Portal and CAS DRM may be communicatively coupled to a backend for processing and managing data.

VOD content delivers video to supply VOD streaming services . Preferably VOD not only delivers the content itself via streaming but also provides the playback control files for each item of content to be obtained before streaming and functions such as real time streaming protocol RTSP sequences for streaming control. Typically STB must access this portion to receive VOD streaming services. Content D L may also deliver video via download in order to supply content download services. Broadcast service transmission portion delivers video in order to supply broadcast services. Generally video signals are relayed from the broadcast facilities of external content providers and transmitted by multicast. STB should access these multicast addresses whenever it selects a broadcast service channel.

System may be configured to accommodate distribution networks and home networks where a distribution network delivers various kinds of information such as content metadata and licenses connected with functional entities for supplying services. A home network refers to networks existing within households which can be connected with PCs and other devices that may not necessarily be utilized in the delivery of services. Under this embodiment a home gateway may be connected between the STB and a network provider s public network. The functions of the STB may then be divided between the STB and gateway and may also include a separate user to network interface through the incorporation of a gateway. The connections between the STB and home network s may take place using the IPv4 IPv6 or IPv4 IPv6 protocols.

Turning to an exemplary STB software architecture layer diagram is illustrated. Generally speaking the software architecture comprises a resource layer a system software layer a middleware application programming interface API layer an application layer and a service layer and may be developed using a variety of known programming languages including C C JAVA and so on. Resource layer is considered the lowest layer and preferably comprises hardware and software resources hardware drivers boot loader lib API etc. and may include a resource abstract layer RAL to provide an abstract view of the hardware software resources to the software and middleware service components for easier integration. Resource layer communicates with system software comprising an operating system and transplantable layers comprising system abstraction layer and interface abstraction layer that allow resources to be transparently provided and to access all local resources as if they were are a single entity. This generally provides an interface between the hardware devices and system software and shields the upper application layers from the physical hardware devices.

Software layer may also include a display module service engine and protocol module for access protocols streaming protocols transmit protocols management protocols etc. to provide basic software and networking functions and to interact with middleware core modules for managing STB operation. As can be seen from middleware core modules may include application management module e.g. DRM application plug in application browser application media player application GUI application etc. security module system resource management module STB management module content service process module and value added services e.g. games shopping applications etc. . Together these modules operate to perform functions such as startup and initialization security and authentication stream rendering and control commands and events system resource control e.g. file system management maintaining real time clock hardware resource control e.g. hard disk memory interface etc. network and transport protocol management CAS DRM and software download and upgrade among others. Accordingly software layer may serve to call operating system resources and lower layer hardware resource while also providing various services for upper application layers such as media play and control media stream transmission control user authentication download services etc.

Software layer may communicate through middleware API to application layer although use of middleware API is optional. Nevertheless middleware API may be advantageous in that the layer may readily be used to improve path management and decrease application complexity provide simplified APIs for application development and provide open interfaces to integrate user applications with third party vendors. Application layer generally comprises various applications that are either downloaded or resident in nature. Generally speaking an application is an application that is executable and may be powered by a presentation engine e.g. HTML Browser Flash . In exemplary application layer comprises a graphic user interface GUI a browser media player and audio detect . In one embodiment audio detect module operates to read ancillary audio code and or extract audio signatures as discussed above. Once a specific code is read and or signature is extracted audio detect module communicates with the other layers to perform a specific function and or modify the operation of a STB. Additional details regarding this feature will be discussed in greater detail below.

Application layer communicates with service layer which may be considered the highest layer of the architecture shown in . Service layer calls the element supported by application layer to fulfill STB related services which may include television VOD and network communication . Additionally service layer may include an audio command module that communicates data to network based on code and or signature data received from audio detect module . The data communicated from audio command module may be used to modify operation or services of a STB or enable STB to receive new services or capabilities provided by a media network.

One exemplary process for configuring a STB or other terminal device is described in the embodiment of . In step a device is initialized before operation and is loaded with predetermined settings that are applicable to the device. The settings may include channel settings applications security and so on. As incoming media is received in the terminal device the audio is processed to determine the presence of ancillary audio code . If code is detected it is processed in to see if the code matches a predetermined code residing in storage. Under one exemplary embodiment predetermined codes are downloaded and stored on the terminal device itself. When ancillary codes are read they are compared to the predetermined codes via a look up table or other suitable means to see if there is a match. If no match exists the code is simply stored in as research data and may subsequently be used for determining media exposure. However if a match does exist the terminal device activates a command and may additionally store the code as research data for subsequent media exposure monitoring. The command activated in may be an internal command or a command that is transmitted to a network. In one advantageous embodiment the command is formed from audio code obtained from the application layer and service layer audio detection and control . The resulting command is generated in the terminal device and transmitted to a network where it is forwarded to any CDN provider service provider platform provider or any other entity responsible for controlling or providing services for the terminal device.

If in step no ancillary code is detected the terminal device may extract an audio signature from the audio. The audio signature may be formed using the frequency domain the time domain or a combination of both. The extracted signature is then compared to a signature database or look up table to determine if the signature correlates to the stored signature . If there is no match the signature is simply stored and may be used as research data for subsequent media exposure monitoring. If there is a match the terminal device activates a command and may additionally store the signature as research data for subsequent media exposure monitoring. Similar to audio code the command activated in may be an internal command or a command that is transmitted to a network. In one advantageous embodiment the command is formed from audio code obtained from the application layer and service layer audio detection and control . The resulting command is generated in the terminal device and transmitted to a network where it is forwarded to any CDN provider service provider platform provider or any other entity responsible for controlling or providing services for the terminal device.

Turning to another exemplary embodiment is disclosed where a terminal device e.g. STB receives incoming media or audio . Terminal device may include storage for storing data media or other information and storage may be integrated into terminal device . As incoming audio is processed to detect codes and or extract signatures the codes signatures are preferably transmitted through network to be further processed as research data . In one embodiment audio code command databases are stored in terminal device . Database comprises codes along with correlated commands that may be executed upon the detection of a respective code. These codes are preferably inserted into audio at the time of broadcasting or transmission and are carried with the audio utilizing masking techniques to make them substantially imperceptible. These codes may also be inserted into the audio at the time of creation which is advantageous in cases where the media is stored on a readable medium e.g. DVD media file etc. . The codes may be in an alpha numeric format or any other suitable format that allows the code to be uniquely identified from other codes.

In the example of code 5273 of database represents a terminal device command that modifies communications to allow the terminal device to accept remote log ins from other devices. Code 1844 represents a command that activates a credit on the terminal device e.g. pay per view VOD . Code 6359 represents command that modifies permissions to allow restrict terminal device access to locked features. Code 4972 represents a command for storing and or transmitting authentication keys for services and features. One skilled in the art would understand that these examples are only a small portion of the various code command combinations that are possible under the present disclosure. Other information such as addressing data may be provided in database to route commands to a specific entity that may be part of the CDN. For example an authentication key may be addressed for a specific server operated by a provider or may alternately contain multiple addresses in cases where keys are shared.

As code is detected from audio it is stored in . During an exemplary matching process each code in is compared to database to see if there is a match. Here code 4972 is matched in database to generate command in a service or application layer to provide or request an authentication key for the terminal device. Similarly detected code 6359 is matched in database resulting in a command that unlocks services or features of the terminal device and matching of code 5273 in database activates to allow remote devices to log into the terminal device. In one embodiment the code matching of takes place entirely in terminal device . In another embodiment audio codes detected in terminal device are transmitted to network and the matching process is performed in the network or cloud. This embodiment is particularly advantageous when large volumes of audio codes and associated commands are used. In yet another embodiment a first match is first performed on the terminal device based on a smaller database . Subsequently all the detected codes which may include additional codes that were not matched on the terminal device are transmitted to network where a second match is performed based on a larger database. The results of the first and second match are then combined to get commands for reconfiguring the operation of the terminal device.

In addition to ancillary codes a similar process may be accomplished using signature matching in . A signature command database may be stored in terminal device where audio signatures represent respective commands. In the example of audio signature SIG represents a command to connect the terminal device to an IP multicast e.g. UDP PGM to allow delivery of content or data e.g. software upgrade . SIG represents an command to enable VAS for the set top box such as gaming social networking etc. SIG represents a command that modifies or creates a new DRM profile for accessing data or services. SIG represents a command for altering the graphics user interface to provide new or different screen buttons skins and the like. Again one skilled in the art would understand that these examples are only a small portion of the various signature command combinations that are possible under the present disclosure and that these commands may be combined with code commands described above. Other information such as addressing data may also be provided in database to route commands to a specific entity that may be part of the CDN. In one embodiment the signature matching of takes place entirely in terminal device . In another embodiment signatures extracted in terminal device are transmitted to network and the matching process is performed in the network or cloud. This embodiment is particularly advantageous when large volumes of audio signatures and associated commands are used. In yet another embodiment a first match is first performed on the terminal device based on a smaller database . Subsequently all the detected signatures which may include additional signatures that were not matched are transmitted to network where a second match is performed based on a larger database. The results of the first and second match are then combined to get commands for reconfiguring the operation of the terminal device. Also signatures may be combined with other signatures as well as other codes to provide additional commands.

It should be noted that the audio codes and signatures for reconfiguring terminal devices do not have to originate from a broadcaster or CDN provider. Terminal devices such as STBs may be equipped with microphones to capture ambient audio. As STBs may be set in an always on condition the microphone may be used to capture audio codes and or signatures to generate configuration commands. In one embodiment a cell phone may contain an encoded audio file. When this audio file is played the STB microphone picks up the audio and uses the ancillary code to generate commands. Thus the phone may be used to remotely activate or control features in the terminal device. In another embodiment audio signatures may be extracted from the audio of other devices involving different platforms e.g. radio . The extracted signatures may be used to provide accesses to services software or data in the STB.

While some of the exemplary embodiments provided above were discussed in the context of STBs one skilled in the art would understand that the configurations could be adapted to other terminal devices as well which may include personal computers computer peripherals network appliances mobile devices and specialized service termination devices such as VoIP terminals or audio visual equipment such as an MP3 player. While at least one example embodiment has been presented in the foregoing detailed description it should be appreciated that a vast number of variations exist. It should also be appreciated that the example embodiment or embodiments described herein are not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the invention in any way. Rather the foregoing detailed description will provide those skilled in the art with a convenient and edifying road map for implementing the described embodiment or embodiments. It should be understood that various changes can be made in the function and arrangement of elements without departing from the scope of the invention and the legal equivalents thereof.

