---

title: System and method for a media intelligence platform
abstract: A multi-tenant media processing platform system and method. At least a first media analysis service of a plurality of media analysis services is activated for at least a portion of an active communication session of an entity in the platform system. The first activated media analysis service performs a first media analysis on media of the active communication session that is collected by the platform system. The first activated media analysis service performs the first media analysis on the collected media while the communication session is active to generate a first media analysis result. During the active communication session, at least one media analysis result is applied.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09477975&OS=09477975&RS=09477975
owner: Twilio, Inc.
number: 09477975
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160202
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 111 399 filed on 3 Feb. 2015 which is incorporated in its entirety by this reference.

This invention relates generally to the communication field and more specifically to a new and useful system and method for a media intelligence platform in the communication field.

There have been many changes in recent years in how people communicate. The rise of mobile devices and VoIP advances have led to numerous services and applications providing news ways for people to communicate. Audio and video processing has similarly seen continued development through the years bringing several advances as new techniques are discovered and developed. However it can be challenging from a development standpoint e.g. technical expertise time budget etc. to build and maintain a communication service or application that uses advanced media processing techniques. Thus there is a need in the communication field to create a new and useful system and method for a media intelligence platform. This invention provides such a new and useful system and method.

The following description of preferred embodiments of the invention is not intended to limit the invention to these preferred embodiments but rather to enable any person skilled in the art to make and use this invention.

As shown in a system for a media intelligence platform of a preferred embodiment includes a multitenant media intelligence platform communication resources an API an account configuration system and media processing resources . The system functions to enable media processing to be offered as a service to outside applications and services e.g. of the app servers and of . The media processing is preferably used for communication based applications. The media processing can be offered as a supplemental or complimentary feature to existing communication services e.g. telephony call flow call center service customer facing communication application SIP trunking service etc. . The media processing can alternatively be a stand alone service wherein outside communication systems can integrate with the media intelligence platform. The media intelligence platform preferably provides real time or time shifted analysis results which enable communication control logic to utilize information extracted from the media content. The media intelligence platform can additionally or alternatively expose the extracted media intelligence information through communication records available through an API a browsable user interface an analytics portal or any suitable interface.

The system can include various types of media processing resources which can function to offer a variety of media processing techniques. The media processing techniques may include sentiment and emotion detection transcription services language detection content detection intent detection speaker detection and or any suitable type of media analysis. The system can similarly be applied to one or more types of media formats.

The media format of a communication can be text audio video multi media or any suitable media format. The media can originate in a synchronous session or in an asynchronous message conversation. The media analysis can be performed on all or part of a communication. A communication session is preferably a synchronous media session such as a voice call a video call a screen sharing call a multi media call or any suitable type of media based call. The portion of a communication can alternatively be one or more asynchronous messages. The messages can be analyzed individually as a collection or a time ordered sequence of messages. A message can be a text message an image a video document or any suitable media message.

The system can additionally include a set of operational services that facilitate operation of the media analysis platform. The operational services preferably include an account system and a metering and logging service.

The account system of the preferred embodiment functions to map requests of the media intelligence platform to an identity within the system. The system is preferably a multitenant platform wherein multiple outside entities can create an account within the platform. An account preferably provides a set of credentials or an alternative authentication mechanism through which requests can be validated. The account system preferably authenticates requests made by an account. In one variation an account identifier and an authentication token must be included in a request and these authentication credentials are validated by the account system before the request is fulfilled. An account may be authenticated when making use of a REST API when receiving signaling communication during use of a user interface control panel or at any suitable instance.

Various aspects of an account and usage of the platform can be configured through account management interfaces. An account may be managed through an account portal user interface. An account may alternatively be managed through API requests or through any suitable mechanism. Aspects of an account that can be managed include configuring programmatic mechanisms and settings when using the media intelligence. For example an account manager could set various callback URIs that are triggered during errors or other events in the system. The account manager can further define various parameters that will determine how a communication is routed.

As a related aspect the system can include a policy engine. The policy engine may be a supplemental component or a sub component of the account system. Policy can be set per account. Accordingly different accounts can have different permissions capabilities pricing capacity performance or other aspects which can be set through an account policy. Policy may alternatively be set for a sub account for the entire platform for a geographic region or for any suitable context. Policy settings may be set by default by the platform but some or all of the policy settings may be driven by an account.

An account can include a defined policy configuration. A policy configuration may set particular limitations for account usage within the platform. The policy can prevent an application of an outside entity incurring usage that is beyond the scope in which the application is meant to be used. For example a policy configuration may limit the amount of media analyzed or the analysis operations performed.

The account system can additionally include a sub account mechanism which functions to enable a user of the platform to partition account usage to enable multitenancy within a product of the account holder. The sub account mechanism preferably accounts for usage and more specifically creditable billable usage to be monitored according to an identifier for a sub set of usage by an account. For example an account holder may build an outside application platform that depends on the system. The outside application platform can similarly be multitenant in that multiple users can have individually metered and accounted usage. The inheritable multitenancy property of the platform i.e. the capability of one account within a multitenant collection of accounts to further subdivide usage the account between subclass of accounts . Can preferably provide the capabilities of a parent account to a subaccount including billing programmatic customization allocation of identifiers or endpoints and or other customization. A billing engine can cooperatively facilitate delivering billing statements and collecting payments from the sub accounts. Additionally the sub account mechanism can establish a hierarchy of policy inheritance. A platform preferably contains policies that are applied to account. In one variation a usage policy is based on the type of account such as free account basic account or enterprise account. A parent account can similarly at least partially define the policies of sub accounts. In one variation an account will create sub account resources.

The metering and logging system of the preferred embodiment functions to create a monitoring system to the media intelligence platform. The metering and logging system operates in coordination with the provided media intelligence platform resources. In one variation the metering and logging system is integrated within an media processing resource instance running on a machine. In another variation the metering and logging system can externally monitor the actions of the media processing resources wherein the actions of a resource may be reported to the metering and logging system in any suitable manner. The metering and logging system functions to create a record of notable activities. The metering can be used in providing programmatic hooks e.g. callback URI triggering application execution and the like billing crediting an associated entity e.g. charging for services or controlling resource access creation of an audit trail and or other suitable functionality. Metering preferably includes recording who e.g. which account sub account user etc. is associated with the use of media micro service and the quantity of usage.

In one variation the metering layer of a media processing resource instance will record individual events such as media analysis initialization requests configuration of the media analysis size or data volume of analyzed media changes to an analyzed media session when a media analysis session ends and or any suitable event. The metering layer may additionally measure the amount of data transfer the time of communication sessions and or any suitable usage metric while facilitating a particular communication session. The records are preferably metered and logged in connection to an associated account.

A billing engine may operate independently of the metering and logging system but may alternatively be integrated. A billing engine preferably calculates amount owed by a particular account sub account. The billing engine can additionally facilitate collecting and distributing of funds as appropriate. Such accounting may be used in billing or crediting an entity account for metered usage which functions to allow a sustainable media intelligence platform to be operated. In another variation usage accountability can be used in limiting and balancing usage of a particular entity. As the platform is preferably multitenant usage is preferably balanced across multiple entities. Rate limiting and action limits may be imposed at various times. Additionally as use of a communication infrastructure is often accompanied with significant financial cost fraudulent behavior by accounts or users of an account can be harmful to users of the platform and to the platform itself. Fraud detection can additionally be accounted for during usage of the platform.

The system may additionally include a resource management system which functions to scale and orchestrate the computing resources that support the media intelligence platform. The set of media processing instances are preferably scaled so as to support the usage requirements across a set of accounts. As a multi tenant platform the resources are preferably shared across accounts. In other words a media processing resource instance used for a first account at one time may be used by a second account at a different time. The variability of usage requirements for distinct account users is preferably normalized across a set of accounts within the platform such that the platform is scaled to support the varying usage demands of various account holders. The resource management system can preferably instantiate more media processing resources or other services suspend resources or terminate service instances. In one variation a usage model is generated for at least a set of active accounts of the platform. For the users that use the platform or alternatively that use the media intelligence platform above a particular threshold a model may be generated that predicts their usage over time. In one instance an account may have a substantially steady state of usage. In another instance the amount of usage may be a function of time of day week month or year. In another instance an account may have varying trends that are predicted in real time based on past metrics and optionally metrics of similar accounts. As one baseline heuristic for usage prediction the media type or application use case may be used to generate a usage model. For example an account may select the type of media processing usage and configuration during activation selecting a media format such as audio video screen sharing and an analysis process such as sentiment and emotion detection transcription services language detection content detection intent detection or speaker detection. A predictive model may be generated using any suitable algorithm or heuristic.

The system may additionally include a queuing system which functions to facilitate rate limiting and or resource management. The queuing system can preferably queue requests of a defined scope. A queuing scope may include queuing across a platform within a regional segment of the platform across an account across a sub account across requests of a telephony endpoint or across any suitable scope. In the variation of queuing with a platform scope requests from different accounts to use a particular media processing resource may be initially queued until a resource is available. The requests may be queued according to different entity limits and policy. Requests of an account or sub account may be associated with a dequeuing rate and limit. A dequeuing limit preferably defines a maximum frequency of a particular action with the media intelligence platform. A dequeuing limit preferably defines a hard limit on the number of particular actions within a time window. For example an account may be limited to no more than a set data bandwidth of media analysis. Additionally or alternatively the dequeuing of a request may be dependent at least in part on the resource usage and or predicted impact of the request on the system.

As shown in a method for a media intelligence platform of a preferred embodiment can include activating media analysis for at least a portion of a communication S collecting media for analysis S performing analysis on the media S and applying results of the analysis S. The method functions to enable developers to extract media intelligence in a communication. The method may be applied to enable a developer to control how a communication application or service integrates with provided media analysis tools. The method can additionally be applied to offer various programmatic mechanisms for using the analysis results.

The method can be used within a communication platform that facilitates communications. The media intelligence platform is preferably multitenant which involves shared use of the platform from multiple and distinct entities. These entities can be managed within the platform as accounts sub accounts endpoints e.g. phone numbers short codes SIP addresses or other communication addresses and or other entity constructs. The method preferably allows for customized treatment of media intelligence on a per entity basis. For example a first account can use the analytic feature different from a second account. In one variation the media analysis service can be used in a communication application platform used in defining communication logic during a call or related to a message such as in the communication platform described in U.S. Pat. No. 8 306 021 issued 6 Nov. 2012 which is hereby incorporated in its entirety by this reference. The method may alternatively be used in combination with a communication service such as a platform that offers a customer facing communication application or any suitable communication based platform. The method can alternatively be used as a media intelligence micro service. In a micro service variation the media intelligence may be the primary and possibly only service of the platform used in a communication. In one variation negotiating and managing a communication occurs outside of the platform by a third party and the third party system routes the communication to the platform to utilize the media intelligence capabilities of the micro service. Routing the communication can include routing the communication through the media intelligence platform e.g. the media intelligence platform is an intermediary node in the media path . Routing the communication can alternatively include terminating a media leg of a communication if for example a third party service streamed a branch of the media stream to the media intelligence platform.

Block S which includes activating media analysis for at least a portion of a communication functions to initiate or trigger use of the media analysis. Media analysis is preferably not a mandatory feature for every entity. As mentioned above different accounts sub accounts or endpoints can utilize the media intelligence independently. A portion of a communication to receive media analysis can be a full communication session a section of a communication session. A communication session is preferably a synchronous media session such as a voice call a video call a screen sharing call a multi media call or any suitable type of media based call. The portion of a communication can alternatively be one or more asynchronous messages. The messages can be analyzed individually as a collection or a time ordered sequence of messages.

Activating media analysis can occur through one of various approaches. Activating media analysis may include activating media analysis in accordance with platform configuration activating media analysis in response to a programmatic event and or activating media analysis in any suitable manner.

Activating media analysis in accordance with platform configuration functions to trigger media analysis automatically. In one variation media analysis can be pre configured for communications e.g. calls or messages . Media analysis can be configured to automatically activate for communications to or from a particular endpoint communications associated with an account or sub account communications made during a particular time window communications made in association with a particular location or any suitable communication condition. During a communication the media intelligence platform checks if the properties of that communication map to a configuration setting that enables media analysis. The media analysis configuration can include properties of the analysis such as type of media analysis and any customized settings. In one variation an administrator can manage media analysis configuration in a dashboard. In one variation the method can include providing a configuration dashboard for some segment of communications and a checkbox can be used to set media analysis. There can be multiple checkboxes for different types of media analysis processes. Other suitable user interfaces may alternatively be used. Such a configuration dashboard may enable an administrator to enable disable media analysis for communications based on involved endpoints sub account types of communications or other categories of communications. Such media analysis configuration settings may alternatively be set through an API or any suitable interface.

Activating media analysis in response to a programmatic event functions to programmatically initiate and or configure media analysis on demand. Use of programmatic events can enable the media analysis to be customized for individual communications. The programmatic event can include communication application instructions a REST API call a SIP message or any suitable programmatic mechanism. The communication application instructions are preferably processed in directing state and communication flow of the communication such as with the telephony instructions of the communication platform referenced above. The REST API can alternatively be any suitable type of API call. An API call can enable media analysis to be triggered by an outside party with authentication credentials to act on that communication. The API call can provide or reference media to be analyzed. The API call can additionally configure properties of the media analysis. In a preferred embodiment analysis can be initiated and or configured from a cloud based communications API. The cloud based communications API can be used in combination with any suitable communication platform such as a telephony developers platform a communication application platform a call routing platform a video chat platform a conference call platform a call center platform or any suitable communications platform.

During live media analysis the programmatic events can similarly be used to pause change and or end media analysis. Media analysis may be enabled for the full duration of a communication but may alternatively be turned on while a communication session is active. Media analysis may additionally be turned during a session. In a variation where media analysis is performed on provided media data the receipt of a media analysis request along with the media can act as the analysis trigger.

Block S which includes collecting media for analysis functions to obtain the media for analysis. In a preferred variation the media intelligence platform is part of a platform that participates in routing of a media path for a communication. In synchronous communications e.g. voice calls video calls multi media streams etc. at least one media intelligence resource is preferably in the media path. In one variation the platform of media intelligence may provide additional services such as communication flow control. Such services may be used in combination with the media analysis. In another variation a media stream may be streamed to and terminated at the media intelligence platform. For example a third party communication system may stream a communication to the media intelligence platform wherein the associated communication is handled through the third party communication system.

In the case where a substantially real time media stream is available the method can include streaming the media through synchronous analysis resources which functions to provide substantially real time analysis. For example sentiment analysis could provide a real time analysis of a user s tone along a happiness dimension e.g. 0 for happy 10 for angry . The real time analysis may alternatively provide time shifted analysis which may be streamed analysis with a fixed or restrained delay. For example real time audio transcription could be provided wherein the text may be output with up to a 10 second delay. The amount of delay may be dependent on the type of analysis the service plan level of an account and other factors.

In one variation the media analysis can additionally or alternatively be performed on static media content. For example the media content can be recorded buffered cached or uploaded to the platform. Media analysis on static media content may be scheduled queued or managed in any suitable manner.

The type of media analyzed in the method may include audio video messaging text image audio video and or other media screen sharing media multi media streams and or any suitable type of media. Preferably the media intelligence platform can support a set of media types. The media type and the media analysis options may be dynamically determined. However the media intelligence platform may support a single type of media. The media can be from phone calls SIP calls conference calls calls with a call center system individual text or media messages text or media message conversations screen sharing applications media sharing apps or any suitable media related application or service.

Block S which includes performing analysis on media functions to process the media and generate at least one media analysis result. At least one media analysis process is performed but multiple media analysis processes can be used. Those processes can be performed independently but may alternatively be dependent. Additionally media analysis results of a first process can be used as input in a second media analysis process. For example a transcript of an audio or video can be processed using text based sentiment analysis. The media intelligence platform can offer one or more types of media analysis processes. The performed media analysis process can have several parameters that can be defined. Media analysis parameters can be customized through the mechanism used to activate media analysis. They may alternatively be set through any programmatic mechanism.

Additionally the different types of media analysis processes can be updated over time. The method can include deploying a media analysis process change across multiple accounts which functions to roll out improvements and other advances across multiple accounts. In one instance an application using the media intelligence platform can benefit from continuous media analysis processing improvements without altering integration with the media intelligence platform.

Some exemplary types of media analysis processes that may be performed by the media intelligence platform can include sentiment and emotion detection transcription language detection content detection intent detection context analysis speaker detection various computer vision techniques various natural language techniques and or any suitable media analysis process. Some of the media analysis processes may be restricted to particular media formats. For example there may be a first set of media analysis processes available for audio and second set of media analysis processes available for video. Different sets of media analysis processes may similarly be defined for text messages messaging conversations images screen sharing media or other types of media. Any suitable media pre processing operations or data conditioning processes may be performed. The media analysis processes are preferably automatically applied based on the activating trigger or configuration. Media analysis processing can be performed in a remote location or some or at an endpoint device e.g. performed by client SDK . Additionally a portion of media analysis processing can be performed in one location and another portion at a second location. In one variation previously trained machine learning system could be implemented in an endpoint device and media analyzed locally using the trained machine learning system. For example an emotion detection neural network trained using millions of media streams in the cloud could be used on an endpoint device. In another variation the analysis system located on an endpoint device could be trained using data on the device or transiting the device. This local data training variation could be used in detection algorithms. For example a detection algorithm executed on an endpoint device could train using a facial recognition algorithm using photos in an album of the device.

Sentiment and emotion detection functions to classify different aspects of communication. Sentiment and emotion detection can classify the tone of a communication as conveyed through the communicated content e.g. what is said or how the content was communicated e.g. tone of voice . The sentiment and emotion detection can use natural language processing in extracting sentiment or emotion from content either conveyed in text or transcribed from audio . The sentiment and emotion detection may use various voice analysis techniques for audio and video. Facial expression recognition techniques can be used in graphical media such as images and video. The sentiment emotion detection may provide overall analysis. For example the sentiment and emotion detection may classify a call based on a measure of aggression detected throughout the call. The sentiment emotion detection may alternatively generate a time based analysis of sentiment. For example the measure of aggression may be a function based on time of a call. In this example the exact moments when one of the callers was angry could be distinguished from when the callers were calm.

Transcription functions to generate a text based machine readable transcript of what is communicated. Various techniques in speech detection may be used. Audio and video may be transcribed into a text based format. Transcription may additionally be used with speaker detection to assign an identity to what was said. As mentioned above the output of a transcription service may be used in other media analysis processes such as sentiment and emotion detection.

Language detection functions to classify the language spoken during a conversation. The language detection process may tag a communication or segments of a communication with language classifiers.

Content detection processes function to classify topics objects and other content of a communication. Content detection may be similar to sentiment and emotion detection. However content detection preferably focuses on identifying classifying or providing classification probabilities for content in a communication. In image and video based communications the content detection could include object detection processes. In text communications or communications with a generated transcript topics of conversation could be classified. Tagging or classification probability assignments could be generated from content detection. The content detection can similarly be applied as an analysis of overall communication or for particular segments of a communication. Context of a communication can similarly be detected. This may be able to classify the environment of a call. For example the context detection could identify calls made on the street in an office in a house in a store and the like.

Intent detection functions to detect an objective of a whole communication or a segment of a communication. In one example intent detection can be used in interpreting a request of a caller. For example a user could ask a question and this could be parameterized into result parameterizing the question into a normalized query.

Speaker detection functions to identify who is talking at what point in a communication. In one variation the speaker detection marks points in time when one or more speakers are communicating. Additionally person or entity recognition can be performed. For example facial recognition can be used in image and video communications.

In one variation the method can include offering customized media processing operations. In a first variation the method can include receiving a customized media analysis process routine. The customized media analysis process routine can be a script a configuration document an application or any suitable mechanism to define media processing. The customized media analysis process routine can be executed during Block S. The customized media analysis process routine can be statically set for a class of communications e.g. communications for an account or subaccount types of calls for selected communications etc. . The customized media analysis process routine may alternatively be retrieved from a set media process URI. The media process URI is preferably retrieved using an application layer protocol. The application layer protocol can be an HTTP based protocol e.g. HTTP or HTTPS SPDY or any suitable application layer protocol. State information of the communication can be embedded into the application layer protocol request to the media process URI. The media process URI preferably refers to a server resource managed by a third party e.g. such as a server managed by the account holder . In one variation third parties may be able to offer specialized or custom media analysis modules that can be enabled for use with the media analysis system for a plurality of users. Such third party media analysis modules can be metered and billed individually. Policy could be configured to set permissions of an account or endpoint to use a specific third party analysis module.

Block S which includes applying results of the analysis functions to provide access to analysis results and or use the results. In a first variation applying the results of the analysis includes providing access to analysis information. Access to analysis information can enable the results to be queried accessed and or otherwise inspected using an API. The API is preferably a REST API. In one variation the media analysis results are attached to communication meta data. The media analysis results can additionally or alternatively be attached to a set of communications wherein retrieving communication information additionally returns media analysis meta data. A web interface could additionally provide a user interface portal that can be used to access media analysis results. The web interface could be a portal enabling search or browsing of media analysis information. Additionally or alternatively the web interface could generate a set of infographics graphs tables highlighted statistics and other graphics that highlight analytics across a set of communications.

The method can additionally include indexing communication sessions according to analysis results. Indexing can make the communications searchable using media analysis properties. Additionally the indexing can enable fuzzy search based on classification probabilities. For example a search for angry communications may return conversations ordered by highest probability of anger to lower probability of anger.

Different types of media analysis can be applied in different ways. Transcription is preferably indexed for searchability. The transcript can additionally be linked or associated with a communication. Language detection sentiment content classification context speaker detection and other properties can be tags associated with a communication or a particular segment of a communication.

In some implementations the media intelligence platform stores communication records e.g. call records messaging records etc. of a communication system e.g. a communication system of the media intelligence platform a communication system of the communication resources of or a communication system external to the platform . In some implementations the media intelligence platform e.g. provides the stored communication records via at least one of an API a browsable user interface an analytics portal or any suitable interface. In some implementations the media intelligence platform e.g. provides an external system e.g. one of the app servers with the stored communication records via at least one of an API a browsable user interface an analytics portal or any suitable interface the communication records being communication records of an account of the media intelligence platform e.g. an account managed by the account system that is associated with the external system. In some implementations the external system provides an API request e.g. via the API to receive communication records for an account specified in the API request and the media intelligence platform provides the communication records for the account to the external system via the API of the platform. In some implementations the communication records include information for at least one communication session and information for each communication session includes at least one of endpoint information for each communication endpoint of the communication session an account or sub account associated with the communication session endpoint device information for at least one communication endpoint of the communication session a time period of the communication session at least one location associated with the communication session and media analysis results associated with the communication session. In some implementations media analysis results included in communication records includes transcription information for a communication session language detection information for a communication session sentiment detection information for a communication session emotion detection information for a communication session content classification information for a communication session context information for a communication session and speaker detection information for a communication session. In some implementations media analysis results are stored in the communication records as tags associated with a communication session or a particular segment of a communication session . In some implementations transcription information for a communication session that is included in communication records e.g. communication records for a platform account is indexed for searchability.

In some implementations a request by an external system e.g. one of the app servers for the stored communication records e.g. provided via at least one of an API a browsable user interface an analytics portal or any suitable interface e.g. communication records of a media intelligence platform account of the external system specifies media analysis results properties and the media intelligence platform provides the external system with communication records that match the specified media analysis results properties. In some implementations the provided communication records for each communication session include media analysis results information that matches the media analysis results properties specified in the request provided by the external system. In some implementations the platform e.g. ioi indexes the media analysis results information of the communication records such that the media analysis results information can be queried. As an example an entity can provide a request for communication records of communication sessions in which results of a sentiment and emotion detection media analysis indicates anger and communication sessions in the communication records can be ordered by highest probability of anger to lower probability of anger. As an example an entity can provide a request for communication records of communication sessions in which results of a sentiment and emotion detection media analysis indicates anger and results of a transcription media analysis service indicates that overbilling was discussed and communication sessions in the communication records can be ordered by highest probability of anger to lower probability of anger.

An implementation of the method preferably results in the media intelligence platform observing performing media analysis on a large volume of media. The media processed is preferably used to train and improve analysis algorithms of the media intelligence platform. Analysis feedback mechanisms such as a feedback API can be used in surveying users and providing qualitative input on media analysis.

Additionally or alternatively applying results of the analysis can include initiating a programmatic event in response to analysis results. The programmatic event can be triggered or initiated in response to particular conditions based at least in part on the analysis results. Alternatively the programmatic events could be initiated once a media analysis result is available which functions to regularly act on the media analysis.

In a first variation the programmatic event is a selected platform event. A platform event is an action performed within the platform. The action of a platform event can include changes to a communication such as changing the media quality setting calling an endpoint sending an email sending a message activating another media analysis service activating recording or performing any suitable action. As one exemplary application of a platform event all calls associated with a call center application may be monitored with emotion detection. When anger is detected the programmatic event may turn on recording for that communication. In another exemplary situation a customer service system could automatically connect a caller to a manager when a caller is getting too upset.

In a second variation the programmatic event includes transmitting a message to a configured URI which functions to trigger a webhook or callback URI. A URI is preferably configured in association with at least one condition based on the media analysis results. When the condition is satisfied an application layer protocol message is transmitted to the URI. The application layer protocol message preferably includes or embeds data relating to the media analysis results. An account manager may use a callback URI for integrating a system of the account manager with events in the media intelligence platform. As opposed to triggering an internal action in the media intelligence platform the callback URI can be used to initiate any suitable process executed by an external system. In one exemplary application of a callback URI a callback URI may be configured and then messaged when a caller is detected to be angry. Preferably the callback URI receives a POST HTTP message with information regarding the communication and or the media analysis. The server that handles the callback URI can process the communication and media analysis information and take any suitable action.

In some implementations the system is similar to a system for providing a micro services communication platform of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 919 650 filed 21 Oct. 2015 which is hereby incorporated in its entirety by this reference. In some implementations the system is similar to the system 100 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 919 650 filed 21 Oct. 2015 which is hereby incorporated in its entirety by this reference. In some implementations the system is similar to a system for providing a network discovery service e.g. STUN TURN service platform of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 919 650 filed 21 Oct. 2015 which is hereby incorporated in its entirety by this reference. In some implementations the system is similar to the system 1300 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 919 650 filed 21 Oct. 2015 which is hereby incorporated in its entirety by this reference. In some implementations the system is similar to a multi tenant media communication platform system of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 919 650 filed 21 Oct. 2015 which is hereby incorporated in its entirety by this reference. In some implementations the system is similar to the multi tenant media communication platform system 2400 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 919 650 filed 21 Oct. 2015 which is hereby incorporated in its entirety by this reference.

In the implementation of the media analysis services of and are implemented as media analysis micro services having a respective micro service API e.g. and at least one media processing resource e.g. Entity A Resources Entity C Resources Entity E Resources . In some implementations media analysis services are implemented as media processing resources e.g. the media processing resources of . In some implementations media analysis services are implemented as media processing resource instances.

In the embodiment of the multi tenant media processing platform system includes at least one communication service e.g. . In the implementation of the communication service is implemented as a communication micro services having a respective micro service API e.g. and at least one media processing resource e.g. Entity A Resources Entity B Resources Entity C Resources Entity D Resources . In some implementations the communication service is implemented as a communication resource e.g. the communication resources of . In some implementations the communication service is implemented as a communication resource instance.

The system is a multi tenant system that includes plural entities e.g. entities of the systems of . In some embodiments entities include one or more of accounts sub accounts organizations users and service instances. In some implementations each service instance includes platform configuration of the platform system for an application of an account or sub account of the platform system . For example an account holder of a platform account can have multiple applications that use the platform system each application of the account holder having a separate service instance that includes platform configuration. In some embodiments each entity is independently configurable and the system manages configuration for each configured entity. In some embodiments entity configuration at the system includes configuration for one or more micro services of the system . In some embodiments entity configuration is received from an external system of a corresponding entity via an account management interface e.g. an account portal user interface an account management API and the like . In some implementations entity configuration includes configuration similar to entity configuration of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 919 650 filed 21 Oct. 2015 which is hereby incorporated in its entirety by this reference. In some implementations entity configuration includes configuration as described herein for . In some implementations entity configuration includes media analysis configuration as described herein. In some implementations entity configuration includes platform configuration as described herein. In some implementations entity configuration includes policy configuration as described herein. In some implementations entity configuration is stored at the system . In some implementations entity configuration is stored at a remote data storage device that is external to the system .

In some embodiments the system generates one or more micro services resources for a configured entity.

As depicted in the media processing platform system includes micro services operational services and a media processing platform API system .

In some embodiments the system is a media processing platform system for multi tenant peer to peer real time media communication. In some embodiments the system is a media processing platform system for multi tenant peer to peer asynchronous media communication. In some embodiments the system is a media processing platform system for multi tenant peer to peer synchronous media communication.

In some embodiments each media analysis micro service e.g. provides at least one media analysis service for a synchronous media stream. In some embodiments the synchronous media stream is a synchronous media stream between two synchronous media communication endpoints e.g. media communication endpoints of different endpoint devices . In some embodiments the two synchronous media communication endpoints communicate via a media communication channel that is established between the two endpoints. In some embodiments the synchronous media stream is a synchronous media stream that is broadcasted to at least one synchronous media communication endpoint. In some embodiments a broadcasting media communication endpoint broadcasts the synchronous media stream to each destination media communication endpoint via at least one media communication channel that is established between the broadcasting endpoint and at least one destination endpoint.

The micro services provide at least one of a sentiment and emotion detection service a transcription service a language detection service a content detection service an intent detection service a speaker detection service a context analysis service a computer vision service and a natural language processing service as described above for .

In some implementations the system includes one or more of signaling micro services e.g. network discovery services such as STUN TURN services and media micro services e.g. a transcoding micro service a recording micro service a mixing micro service a conferencing micro service a media intelligence micro service a text to speech micro service a speech detection micro service a notification micro service a call progress micro service and the like .

In some implementations signaling micro services of the platform system are similar to micro services of a signaling and control system of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 919 650 filed 21 Oct. 2015 which is hereby incorporated in its entirety by this reference. In some implementations signaling micro services of the platform system are similar to micro services of the signaling and control system 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 919 650 filed 21 Oct. 2015 which is hereby incorporated in its entirety by this reference.

In some implementations signaling micro services of the platform system are similar to a STUN TURN micro service STMS of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 919 650 filed 21 Oct. 2015 which is hereby incorporated in its entirety by this reference. In some implementations signaling micro services of the platform system are similar to the STUN TURN micro services STMS of FIG. 13 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 919 650 filed 21 Oct. 2015 which is hereby incorporated in its entirety by this reference.

In some implementations media analysis services of the platform system are similar to media micro services of a media service system of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 919 650 filed 21 Oct. 2015 which is hereby incorporated in its entirety by this reference. In some implementations media analysis services of the platform system are similar to media micro services of the media service system 110 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 919 650 filed 21 Oct. 2015 which is hereby incorporated in its entirety by this reference. In some implementations media analysis services of the platform system are similar to the media micro services 1381 and 1382 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 919 650 filed 21 Oct. 2015 which is hereby incorporated in its entirety by this reference.

In some embodiments the operational services include a resource management system a Micro Service MS interface an account system a policy engine a metering and logging system a fraud detection system a billing engine and an Event Trigger System as depicted in .

In some implementations the account system is similar to the account system described herein for . In some implementations the metering and logging system is similar to the metering and logging system described herein for . In some implementations the policy engine is similar to the policy engine described herein for . In some implementations the billing engine is similar to the billing engine described herein for . In some implementations the resource management system is similar to the resource management system described herein for .

In some implementations the system includes a queueing system similar to the queueing system described herein for

In some implementations the resource management system the MS interface the account system the policy engine the metering and logging system the fraud detection system the billing engine the communication platform API system and the Event Trigger System are similar to a resource management system a MS interface an account system a policy engine a metering and logging system a fraud detection system a billing engine an API service and an Event Trigger System respectively of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 919 650 filed 21 Oct. 2015 which is hereby incorporated in its entirety by this reference.

In some implementations the resource management system the MS interface the account system the policy engine the metering and logging system the fraud detection system the billing engine the communication platform API system and the Event Trigger System are similar to the resource management system 1390 the MS interface 1380 the account system 1330 the policy engine 1331 the metering and logging system 1340 the fraud detection system 1370 the billing engine 1350 the API service 1383 and the Event Trigger System 1384 respectively of FIG. 13 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 919 650 filed 21 Oct. 2015 which is hereby incorporated in its entirety by this reference. In some implementations the system includes a queueing system similar to the queueing system 1360 of FIG. 13 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 919 650 filed 21 Oct. 2015 which is hereby incorporated in its entirety by this reference.

In some implementations one or more of the micro services are accessible by a system e.g. Entity A system Entity B system Entity C system Entity D system and Entity E system that is external to the system and that is a system of an entity of the system . In some implementations one or more of the micro services are accessible by an external system of an entity via the API system . In some implementations one or more of the micro services are accessible by an external system of an entity via a micro service API of the respective micro service e.g. micro service A API micro service B API micro service C API . In some implementations an external system of an entity accesses one or more of the micro services by providing at least one signaling request to the system e.g. via a signaling interface of the system a queueing system and the like .

In some implementations one or more of the micro services are accessible by another micro service of the system . In some implementations one or more of the micro services are accessible by another micro service of the system via the MS interface . In some implementations one or more of the micro services are accessible by another micro service of the system via the API service . In some implementations one or more of the micro services are accessible by another micro service of the system via a respective micro service API e.g. one of the APIs . In some implementations one or more of the micro services are accessible by another micro service of the system via a signaling request.

In some implementations one or more of the micro services include RESTful API resources e.g. Entity A Resources Entity B Resources Entity C Resources Entity D Resources and Entity E Resources as depicted in which act as endpoints that can act as a mechanism for specifying requested information or requesting particular actions. In some implementations the resources are expressed as URI s or resource paths. In some implementations the RESTful API resources are responsive to different types of HTTP methods such as GET Put POST and or DELETE. In some implementations each micro service API e.g. one of the APIs is a RESTful API.

In some implementations one or more of the micro services include a process manager an authentication layer and a metering layer similar to the process managers the authentication layers and the metering layers of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 919 650 filed 21 Oct. 2015 which is hereby incorporated in its entirety by this reference. In some implementations one or more of the micro services include a process manager an authentication layer and a metering layer similar to the process managers the authentication layers and the metering layers e.g. of FIG. 13 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 919 650 filed 21 Oct. 2015 which is hereby incorporated in its entirety by this reference.

In some implementations the platform system includes media analysis service configuration for a plurality of entities e.g. the entities corresponding to the systems of configured for use of the platform system e.g. . In some implementations the media analysis service configuration is managed by operational services of the platform system e.g. the operational services of . In some implementations the media analysis service configuration is managed by an account system of the platform system e.g. the account system of . In some implementations the media analysis service configuration is managed by a policy engine of the platform system e.g. the policy engine of . In some implementations the media analysis service configuration is managed by a respective micro service of the platform system e.g. .

In some implementations the platform system includes communication service configuration for a plurality of entities e.g. the entities corresponding to the systems of configured for use of the platform system e.g. . In some implementations the communication service configuration is managed by operational services of the platform system e.g. the operational services of . In some implementations the communication service configuration is managed by an account system of the platform system e.g. the account system of . In some implementations the communication service configuration is managed by a policy engine of the platform system e.g. the policy engine of . In some implementations the communication service configuration is managed by a respective micro service of the platform system e.g. .

As shown in the method is performed at a multi tenant media processing platform system e.g. the system of that includes a plurality of media analysis services e.g. implemented as micro services of .

The method includes activating at least a first media analysis service e.g. of the plurality of media analysis services for at least a portion of an active communication session of an entity in the platform system process S the first activated media analysis service performing a first media analysis on media of the active communication session that is collected by the platform system the first activated media analysis service performing the first media analysis on the collected media while the communication session is active to generate a first media analysis result process S during the active communication session applying at least one media analysis result process S .

In some embodiments the process S is similar to Silo of . In some embodiments the process S is similar to S of . In some embodiments the media of the active communication session is collected as described above for S of . In some embodiments the process S is similar to S of .

In some embodiments the platform system activates the first media analysis service responsive to a determination by the platform system that at least one property of media of the active communication session that is collected by the platform system maps to at least one setting of entity platform configuration that enables the first media analysis the entity platform configuration being platform configuration of the entity e.g. an entity of one of the systems in the platform system.

In some embodiments the platform system activates the first media analysis service responsive to a communication application instruction. In some embodiments the communication application instruction is provided by an external system of the entity e.g. one of the systems . In some embodiments the communication application instruction is provided to the communication micro service by an external system of the entity e.g. one of the systems the communication micro service executes the communication application instruction and the platform system activates the first media analysis service responsive to execution of the communication application instruction. In some embodiments the communication micro service receives the communication application instruction responsive to an incoming telephony communication request to an communication endpoint that is mapped to an application resource of the external system of the entity and the communication micro service receives the communication application instruction responsive to the communication micro service providing an application layer request to a URI Uniform Resource Identifier of the external system. In some embodiments responsive to the communication micro service receiving an incoming telephony communication request to a communication endpoint that is mapped to an application resource of an external system e.g. one of of the entity the communication micro service receives provides an application layer request to a URI Uniform Resource Identifier of the external system e.g. and receives the communication application instruction from the external system in a response to the request the communication micro service executes the communication application instruction and the platform system activates the first media analysis service responsive to execution of the communication application instruction by the communication micro service .

In some embodiments the platform system activates the first media analysis service responsive to a REST API call. In some embodiments the REST API call is provided by an external system of the entity. In some embodiments the platform system activates the first media analysis service responsive to a SIP message. In some embodiments the SIP message call is provided by an external system of the entity.

In some embodiments activating at least a first media analysis service the process S includes activating the first media analysis service and a second media analysis service of the plurality of media analysis services for at least a portion of the active communication session of the entity in the platform system.

In some embodiments the platform system activates the second media analysis service responsive to a determination by the platform system that at least one property of media of the active communication session that is collected by the platform system maps to at least one setting of entity platform configuration that enables the second media analysis the entity platform configuration being platform configuration of the entity e.g. an entity of one of the systems in the platform system.

In some embodiments the platform system activates the second media analysis service responsive to a communication application instruction. In some embodiments the communication application instruction is provided by an external system of the entity e.g. one of the systems . In some embodiments the communication application instruction is provided to the communication micro service by an external system of the entity e.g. one of the systems the communication micro service executes the communication application instruction and the platform system activates the second media analysis service responsive to execution of the communication application instruction. In some embodiments the communication micro service receives the communication application instruction responsive to an incoming telephony communication request to an communication endpoint that is mapped to an application resource of the external system of the entity and the communication micro service receives the communication application instruction responsive to the communication micro service providing an application layer request to a URI Uniform Resource Identifier of the external system. In some embodiments responsive to the communication micro service receiving an incoming telephony communication request to a communication endpoint that is mapped to an application resource of an external system e.g. one of of the entity the communication micro service receives provides an application layer request to a URI Uniform Resource Identifier of the external system e.g. and receives the communication application instruction from the external system in a response to the request the communication micro service executes the communication application instruction and the platform system activates the second media analysis service responsive to execution of the communication application instruction by the communication micro service .

In some embodiments the platform system activates the second media analysis service responsive to a REST API call. In some embodiments the REST API call is provided by an external system of the entity. In some embodiments the platform system activates the second media analysis service responsive to a SIP message. In some embodiments the SIP message call is provided by an external system of the entity.

In some embodiments the platform system activates each media analysis service responsive to at least one of a determination by the platform system that at least one property of media of the active communication session that is collected by the platform system maps to at least one setting of entity platform configuration that enables media analysis the entity platform configuration being platform configuration of the entity in the platform system a communication application instruction a REST API call and a SIP message. In some embodiments the communication application instruction is provided by an external system of the entity e.g. one of the systems . In some embodiments the communication application instruction is provided to the communication micro service by an external system of the entity e.g. one of the systems the communication micro service executes the communication application instruction and the platform system activates a media analysis service responsive to execution of the communication application instruction. In some embodiments the communication micro service receives the communication application instruction responsive to an incoming telephony communication request to an communication endpoint that is mapped to an application resource of the external system of the entity and the communication micro service receives the communication application instruction responsive to the communication micro service providing an application layer request to a URI Uniform Resource Identifier of the external system. In some embodiments responsive to the communication micro service receiving an incoming telephony communication request to a communication endpoint that is mapped to an application resource of an external system e.g. one of of the entity the communication micro service receives provides an application layer request to a URI Uniform Resource Identifier of the external system e.g. and receives the communication application instruction from the external system in a response to the request the communication micro service executes the communication application instruction and the platform system activates a media analysis service responsive to execution of the communication application instruction by the communication micro service

In some embodiments the entity platform configuration is provided by at least one external system e.g. via an account management interface e.g. of the API System of of the media processing platform system the account management interface including a least one of an account portal user interface and an account management API.

In some embodiments in which the first media analysis service and the second media analysis service are activated the first media analysis service and the second media analysis service are both active during at least a portion of the active communication session.

In some embodiments the platform configuration specifies automatic activation of at least one media analysis service for at least one of a communication of the entity to a particular endpoint a communication session of the entity from a particular endpoint a communication session of the entity associated with a particular account a communication session of the entity made during a particular time window and a communication session of the entity made in association with a particular location.

In some embodiments communication application instructions are processed in directing state and communication flow of the communication session.

In some embodiments the method includes activating a second media analysis service of the plurality of media analysis services for at least a portion of the active communication session of the entity in the platform system and the process S includes the second activated media analysis service performing a second media analysis on the collected media while the communication session is active to generate a second media analysis result the second media analysis being different from the first media analysis.

In some embodiments activating at least a first media analysis service of the plurality of media analysis services for at least a portion of an active communication session of an entity in the platform system process S includes the platform system selecting at least the first media analysis service from the plurality of media analysis services of the platform system the plurality of media analysis services including at least one of a sentiment and emotion detection service a transcription service a language detection service a content detection service an intent detection service a speaker detection service a context analysis service a computer vision service and a natural language processing service and the platform system activating each selected media analysis service. In some embodiments activating at least a first media analysis service of the plurality of media analysis services for at least a portion of an active communication session of an entity in the platform system process S includes the platform system selecting at least the first media analysis service from the plurality of media analysis services of the platform system the plurality of media analysis services including at least one of a sentiment and emotion detection service a context analysis service and a computer vision service and the platform system activating each selected media analysis service. In some implementations the platform system selects each selected media analysis service responsive to a programmatic event. In some implementations the programmatic event is provided by an external system e.g. of of the entity. In some implementations the programmatic event includes reception at the platform system of a communication application instruction that initiates the activation. In some implementations the programmatic event includes reception at the platform system of a REST API call that initiates the activation. In some implementations the platform system selects each selected media analysis service in accordance with entity platform configuration of the entity.

In some embodiments activating at least a first media analysis service of the plurality of media analysis services for at least a portion of an active communication session of an entity in the platform system process S includes activating a sentiment and emotion detection service.

In some embodiments the first media analysis service collects the media of the active communication session. In some embodiments the second media analysis service collects the media of the active communication session.

In some embodiments a REST API call that activates a media analysis service is provided by an outside party with authentication credentials to act on the communication session the API call providing the media of the communication session to be analyzed and configuration of the media analysis service.

In some embodiments the process S includes activating a second media analysis service of the plurality of media analysis services for at least a portion of the active communication session of the entity in the platform system and the method includes the second media analysis service performing a second media analysis on the first media analysis result while the communication session is active to generate a second media analysis result the second media analysis being different from the first media analysis. In some implementations the first media analysis service transmits an application layer protocol message to a Uniform Resource Identifier URI of the second media analysis service the application layer protocol message providing data relating to the first media analysis result. In some embodiments a callback URI parameter of the first media analysis service is configured to specify the URI of the second media analysis service.

In some implementations the media is real time media and the first media analysis service performs real time media analysis on the real time media. In some implementations the media is stored media and the first media analysis service performs asynchronous media analysis on the stored media.

In some implementations in which a second media analysis service is activated the media is real time media and the second media analysis service performs real time media analysis on the real time media. In some implementations in which a second media analysis service is activated the media is stored media and the second media analysis service performs asynchronous media analysis on the stored media.

In some implementations the first media analysis service is a sentiment and emotion detection service. In some implementations in which a second media analysis service is activated the second media analysis service is a sentiment and emotion detection service and the first media analysis service is a different media analysis service. In some implementations in which a second media analysis service is activated the first media analysis service is a sentiment and emotion detection service and the second media analysis service is a different media analysis service.

In some implementations the media processing platform system collects media of the active communication session by using a communication service of the system e.g. the communication service provided by the micro service of . In some implementations the media processing platform system collects media of the active communication session from an external system such as for example a communication system that is external to the media processing platform system a communication endpoint device e.g. of a system of the entity e.g. one of the systems of . In some implementations a communication endpoint device includes at least one of a mobile phone computer tablet portable computing device and the like.

In some implementations the first activated media analysis service e.g. the media analysis service of the micro service collects media of the active communication session from a communication service of the system e.g. the communication service of the micro service of . In some implementations the first activated media analysis service e.g. the media analysis service of the micro service collects media of the active communication session from another media analysis service of the system e.g. a media analysis service of the micro service of . In some implementations the first activated media analysis service collects media of the active communication session from an external system such as for example a communication system that is external to the media processing platform system a communication endpoint device e.g. of a system of the entity e.g. one of the systems of . In some implementations a communication endpoint device includes at least one of a mobile phone computer tablet portable computing device and the like.

In some implementations a second activated media analysis service e.g. the media analysis service of the micro service collects media of the active communication session from a communication service of the system e.g. the communication service of the micro service of . In some implementations the second activated media analysis service e.g. the media analysis service of the micro service collects media of the active communication session from another media analysis service of the system e.g. a media analysis service of the micro service of . In some implementations the second activated media analysis service collects media of the active communication session from an external system such as for example a communication system that is external to the media processing platform system a communication endpoint device e.g. of a system of the entity e.g. one of the systems of . In some implementations a communication endpoint device includes at least one of a mobile phone computer tablet portable computing device and the like.

In some embodiments applying at least one media analysis result includes applying the first media analysis result. In some implementations in which the first media analysis service and the second media analysis service are activated applying at least one media analysis result includes applying the first media analysis result. In some implementations in which the first media analysis service and the second media analysis service are activated applying at least one media analysis result includes applying the second media analysis result. In some implementations in which the first media analysis service and the second media analysis service are activated applying at least one media analysis result includes applying the first media analysis result and the second media analysis result.

In some embodiments applying the at least one media analysis result process S includes changing the active communication session in response to the first media analysis result.

In some embodiments applying the at least one media analysis result process S includes transmitting at least one application layer protocol message to at least one callback URI of a communication service of the platform system e.g. a callback URI of the communication micro service such as for example a callback URI corresponding to the communication micro service API of the entity the at least one application layer protocol message providing the at least one media analysis result.

In some embodiments in which the first media analysis service and the second media analysis service are activated applying the at least one media analysis result process S includes changing the active communication session in response to the first media analysis result and the second media analysis result. In some embodiments in which the first media analysis service and the second media analysis service are activated applying the at least one media analysis result process S includes changing the active communication session in response to the second media analysis result. In some embodiments in which the first media analysis service and the second media analysis service are activated applying the at least one media analysis result process S includes changing the active communication session in response to the first media analysis result.

In some implementations changing the active communication session includes changing media of the communication session.

In some implementations changing the active communication session includes at least one of changing a media quality of the active communication session calling an endpoint sending an e mail sending a message activating another media analysis service and activating recording. In some implementations the communication service e.g. of changes the active communication session.

In some embodiments applying the at least one media analysis result process S includes transmitting at least one application layer protocol message to at least one callback URI of an external system e.g. of the entity the at least one callback URI being specified by entity platform configuration. In some implementations the at least one application layer protocol message provides the first media analysis result.

In some implementations in which the first media analysis service and the second media analysis service are activated the at least one application layer protocol message provides the first media analysis result. In some implementations in which the first media analysis service and the second media analysis service are activated the at least one application layer protocol message provides the second media analysis result. In some implementations in which the first media analysis service and the second media analysis service are activated the at least one application layer protocol message provides the first media analysis result and the second media analysis result.

In some embodiments applying the at least one media analysis result process S includes applying the first media analysis result by transmitting at least one application layer protocol message to at least one callback URI of an external system e.g. of the entity the at least one callback URI being specified by a REST API call that activates the first media analysis service the at least one application layer protocol message providing the first media analysis result.

In some embodiments applying the at least one media analysis result process S includes providing access to the at least one media analysis result as described above for S. In some embodiments applying the at least one media analysis result process S includes providing access to the at least one media analysis result via a REST API e.g. the an API of the API system . In some embodiments applying the at least one media analysis result process S includes providing access to the at least one media analysis result by attaching the at least one media analysis result to communication meta data e.g. communication metadata provided by the communication service of . In some embodiments applying the at least one media analysis result process S includes providing access to the at least one media analysis result via a user interface portal provided by the system . In some embodiments the system indexes communication sessions e.g. communication sessions of the communication micro service of according to the at least one media analysis results.

In some implementations providing access to the at least one media analysis result includes indexing communication sessions according to analysis results. Indexing can make the communications searchable using media analysis properties. Additionally the indexing can enable fuzzy search based on classification probabilities. For example a search for angry communications may return conversations ordered by highest probability of anger to lower probability of anger. Different types of media analysis can be applied in different ways. Transcription is preferably indexed for searchability. The transcript can additionally be linked or associated with a communication. Language detection sentiment content classification context speaker detection and other properties can be tags associated with a communication or a particular segment of a communication.

In some implementations providing access to the at least one media analysis result includes the platform system providing stored communication records via at least one of an API e.g. of a browsable user interface an analytics portal or any suitable interface. In some implementations the platform system stores communication records e.g. call records messaging records etc. of a communication system e.g. a communication system of the platform system a communication system of the micro service a communication system external to the system . In some implementations the system provides an external system e.g. with the stored communication records via at least one of an API a browsable user interface an analytics portal or any suitable interface the communication records being communication records of an account of the platform system e.g. an account managed by the account system that is associated with the external system. In some implementations the external system provides an API request e.g. via the API to receive communication records for an account specified in the API request and the platform system provides the communication records for the account to the external system via the API of the platform.

In some implementations the communication records include information for at least one communication session and information for each communication session includes at least one of endpoint information for each communication endpoint of the communication session an account or sub account associated with the communication session endpoint device information e.g. of a device of for at least one communication endpoint of the communication session a time period of the communication session at least one location associated with the communication session and media analysis results associated with the communication session. In some implementations media analysis results included in communication records includes the at least one media analysis result. In some implementations media analysis results included in communication records includes transcription information for a communication session language detection information for a communication session sentiment detection information for a communication session emotion detection information for a communication session content classification information for a communication session context information for a communication session and speaker detection information for a communication session. In some implementations media analysis results are stored in the communication records as tags associated with a communication session or a particular segment of a communication session . In some implementations transcription information for a communication session that is included in communication records e.g. communication records for a platform account is indexed for searchability.

In some implementations a request by an external system e.g. one of the app servers for the stored communication records e.g. provided via at least one of an API a browsable user interface an analytics portal or any suitable interface e.g. communication records of a platform system account of the external system specifies media analysis results properties and the platform system provides the external system with communication records that match the specified media analysis results properties. In some implementations the provided communication records for each communication session include media analysis results information that matches the media analysis results properties specified in the request provided by the external system. In some implementations the platform system e.g. indexes the media analysis results information of the communication records such that the media analysis results information can be queried. As an example an entity can provide a request for communication records of communication sessions in which results of a sentiment and emotion detection media analysis indicates anger and communication sessions in the communication records can be ordered by highest probability of anger to lower probability of anger. As an example an entity can provide a request for communication records of communication sessions in which results of a sentiment and emotion detection media analysis indicates anger and results of a transcription media analysis service indicates that overbilling was discussed and communication sessions in the communication records can be ordered by highest probability of anger to lower probability of anger.

In some embodiments the method includes accounting for the use of the first activated media analysis service on behalf of the entity process S and generating billing information for the entity based on the accounting for the use of the first activated media analysis service process S .

In some embodiments in which the first media analysis service and the second media analysis service are activated the method includes accounting for the use of the first activated media analysis service on behalf of the entity process S accounting for the use of the second activated media analysis service on behalf of the entity the platform system accounting for the use of the second activated media analysis service independently from the accounting for the use of the first activated media analysis service process S and generating billing information for the entity based on the accounting for the use of the first activated media analysis service and the accounting for the use of the second activated media analysis service process S .

In some embodiments the plurality of media analysis services includes at least one of a sentiment and emotion detection service a transcription service a language detection service a content detection service an intent detection service a speaker detection service a context analysis service a computer vision service and a natural language processing service.

In some embodiments the active communication session is a communication session between at least a first communication endpoint device e.g. and a second communication endpoint device e.g. of the first communication endpoint device and the second communication endpoint device each being external to the platform system and each media analysis service e.g. each service of the media analysis micro services is constructed to perform media analysis on media of the communication session between at least the first communication endpoint device and the second communication endpoint device.

In some embodiments plurality of media analysis services includes at least one of a sentiment and emotion detection service a language detection service an intent detection service a speaker detection service a context analysis service and a computer vision service.

In some embodiments the first media analysis service includes a customized media analysis process routine as described above for block S.

In some embodiments the method includes the system training at least one media analysis service by using the first media analysis result. In some embodiments the method includes the system training at least one media analysis service by using the first media analysis result and user feedback provided by an external system e.g. via a feedback API of the system e.g. a feedback API of the API system . In some implementations the system receives user feedback via the feedback API the feedback indicating a quality of media analysis provided by the first media analysis service and the system trains the first media analysis service based on the received feedback. In some implementations the system maintains a history data that includes media analysis results and corresponding media and user feedback of the first media analysis service and the system trains the first media analysis service by using the history data.

In some implementations the process S is performed by the API system . In some implementations the process S is performed by at least one micro service e.g. . In some implementations the process S is performed by the API system and at least one micro service. In some implementations the process S is performed by the API system at least one micro service and the operations services . In some implementations the process S is performed by the operational services . In some implementations the process S is performed by the account system . In some implementations the process S is performed by the account system and the policy engine . In some implementations the process S is performed by two or more of the account system the policy engine and the MS interface .

In some implementations the process S is performed by at least one media analysis micro service e.g. . In some implementations the process S is performed by the API system and at least one media analysis micro service. In some implementations the process S is performed by the API system at least one media analysis micro service and the operations services .

In some implementations the process S is performed by the API system . In some implementations the process S is performed by at least one micro service e.g. . In some implementations the process S is performed by the API system and at least one micro service. In some implementations the process S is performed by the API system at least one micro service and the operations services . In some implementations the process S is performed by the operational services . In some implementations the process S is performed by the account system . In some implementations the process S is performed by the account system and the policy engine . In some implementations the process S is performed by two or more of the account system the policy engine and the MS interface .

In some implementations the process S is performed by the API system . In some implementations the process S is performed by at least one micro service e.g. . In some implementations the process S is performed by the API system and at least one micro service. In some implementations the process S is performed by the API system at least one micro service and the operations services . In some implementations the process S is performed by the operational services . In some implementations the process S is performed by the account system . In some implementations the process S is performed by the account system and the policy engine . In some implementations the process S is performed by two or more of the account system the policy engine and the MS interface .

In some implementations the process S is performed by the API system . In some implementations the process S is performed by at least one micro service e.g. . In some implementations the process S is performed by the API system and at least one micro service. In some implementations the process S is performed by the API system at least one micro service and the operations services . In some implementations the process S is performed by the operational services . In some implementations the process S is performed by the account system . In some implementations the process S is performed by the account system and the policy engine . In some implementations the process S is performed by two or more of the account system the policy engine and the MS interface .

As shown in the method is performed at a multi tenant media processing platform system e.g. the system of that includes a plurality of media analysis services e.g. implemented as micro services of .

The method includes activating a first media analysis service e.g. of the micro services of of the plurality of media analysis services for at least a portion of an active communication session of an entity e.g. an entity of one of systems in the platform system the platform system activating the first media analysis service responsive to a REST API call provided by an external system e.g. of the entity process S the first activated media analysis service performing a first media analysis on media of the active communication session that is collected by the first activated media analysis service while the communication session is active to generate a first media analysis result process S during the active communication session applying the first media analysis result by transmitting at least one application layer protocol message to at least one callback URI of an external system e.g. of the entity the at least one callback URI being specified by the REST API call the at least one application layer protocol message providing the first media analysis result process S accounting for the use of the first activated media analysis service on behalf of the entity process S generating billing information for the entity based on the accounting for the use of the first activated media analysis service process S . Each external system e.g. of the entity is a system of an account holder of a platform account of the multi tenant media processing platform system each external system being external to the platform system .

In some embodiments activating a first media analysis service of the plurality of media analysis services for at least a portion of an active communication session of an entity in the platform system the process S includes the platform system selecting at least the first media analysis service from the plurality of media analysis services of the platform system the plurality of media analysis services including at least one of a sentiment and emotion detection service a transcription service a language detection service a content detection service an intent detection service a speaker detection service a context analysis service a computer vision service and a natural language processing service and the platform system activating each selected media analysis service. In some embodiments activating a first media analysis service of the plurality of media analysis services for at least a portion of an active communication session of an entity in the platform system the process S includes the platform system selecting at least the first media analysis service from the plurality of media analysis services of the platform system the plurality of media analysis services including at least one of a sentiment and emotion detection service a context analysis service and a computer vision service and the platform system activating each selected media analysis service. In some implementations the platform system selects each selected media analysis service responsive to a programmatic event. In some implementations the programmatic event is provided by an external system e.g. of of the entity. In some implementations the programmatic event includes reception at the platform system of a communication application instruction that initiates the activation. In some implementations the programmatic event includes reception at the platform system of a REST API call that initiates the activation. In some implementations the platform system selects each selected media analysis service in accordance with entity platform configuration of the entity.

In some embodiments activating at least a first media analysis service of the plurality of media analysis services for at least a portion of an active communication session of an entity in the platform system process S includes activating a sentiment and emotion detection service.

In some implementations the first media analysis service is activated for a specified active communication session such as for example a pre established communication session that is active prior to activation of the first media analysis service. In some implementations the first media analysis service is activated for all active communication sessions of the entity.

In some implementations the activation REST API call to activate the first media analysis service specifies at least the communication session and at least the first activated media analysis service. In some implementations the REST API call to activate the first media analysis service specifies at least the communication session at least the first activated media analysis service and at least the callback URI for the first media analysis service. In some implementations the REST API call to activate the first media analysis service specifies at least the communication session at least the first activated media analysis service and at least media analysis service configuration for the first media analysis service. In some implementations the activation REST API call specifies the communication session by using a session ID of a communication session of the communication micro service e.g. of the platform .

In some implementations the activation REST API call to activate the first media analysis service includes or references the media of the communication session and specifies at least the first activated media analysis service. In some implementations the REST API call to activate the first media analysis service includes or references the media of the communication session and specifies at least the first activated media analysis service and at least the callback URI for the first media analysis service. In some implementations the REST API call to activate the first media analysis service includes or references the media of the communication session and specifies at least the first activated media analysis service and at least media analysis service configuration for the first media analysis service.

In some implementations the callback URI is specified by a callback URI parameter of the media analysis service configuration of the activation REST API call. In some implementations the callback URI is specified by a callback URI parameter of the media analysis service configuration of the first media analysis micro service e.g. . In some implementations the callback URI is specified by a callback URI parameter of the media analysis service configuration of the account system .

In some implementations the callback URI is specified by a callback URI parameter included in entity platform configuration of the entity e.g. entity platform configuration of the account system of .

In some implementations the callback URI for the first media analysis service is provided by at least one external system e.g. of the entity via an account management interface e.g. of the API System of of the media processing platform system the account management interface including a least one of an account portal user interface and an account management API.

In some implementations the REST API specifies the first activated media analysis service a second media analysis service the callback URI for the first media analysis result and a callback URI for a second media analysis result generated by the second media analysis service. In some implementations the REST API specifies the first activated media analysis service a second media analysis service and the callback URI and the specified callback URI is for the first media analysis result and a second media analysis result generated by the second media analysis service.

In some implementations the REST API specifies the first activated media analysis service a second media analysis service the callback URI for the first media analysis result and a platform event to be performed based on the second media analysis result generated by the second media analysis service.

In some implantations the platform event is an action performed within the platform . In some implementations the platform event is an action performed by a communication micro service e.g. of the platform . In some implementations action of a platform event can include changes to a communication such as changing the media quality setting calling an endpoint sending an email sending a message activating another media analysis service activating recording or performing any suitable action. In some implementations an exemplary application of a platform event includes monitoring all calls associated with a call center application with emotion detection. In some implementations an exemplary application of a platform event includes monitoring all calls associated with a call center application with emotion detection when anger is detected the programmatic event turns on recording for that communication. In some implementations an exemplary application of a platform event includes a customer service system automatically connecting a caller to a manager when a caller is getting too upset.

In some embodiments in which the second media analysis service is activated the method includes activating the second media analysis service e.g. of the micro services of of the plurality of media analysis services for at least a portion of an active communication session of an entity e.g. an entity of one of systems in the platform system the platform system activating the second media analysis service responsive to a REST API call provided by an external system e.g. of the entity.

In some embodiments in which the second media analysis service is activated the method includes the second activated media analysis service performing a second media analysis on media of the active communication session that is collected by the second activated media analysis service while the communication session is active to generate a second media analysis result.

In some embodiments in which the second media analysis service is activated the method includes the second activated media analysis service performing a second media analysis on the first analysis result to generate a second media analysis result.

In some embodiments in which the second media analysis service is activated the method includes during the active communication session applying the second media analysis result by transmitting at least one application layer protocol message to at least one callback URI of an external system e.g. of the entity the at least one callback URI being specified by the REST API call to activate the second media analysis service the at least one application layer protocol message providing the second media analysis result.

In some embodiments in which the second media analysis service is activated the method includes during the active communication session applying the second media analysis result by performing a platform event as described herein for S of .

In some embodiments in which the second media analysis service is activated the method includes accounting for the use of the second activated media analysis service on behalf of the entity and generating billing information for the entity based on the accounting for the use of the second activated media analysis service.

In some embodiments in which the second media analysis service is activated the first media analysis service and the second media analysis service are both active during at least a portion of the active communication session.

In some embodiments in which the second media analysis service is activated use of the second activated media analysis service is accounted for independently from use of the first activated media analysis service.

In some embodiments in which the second media analysis service is activated media analysis of the second media analysis service is different from media analysis of the first media analysis service.

In some embodiments in which the second media analysis service is activated a callback URI parameter of the first media analysis service specifies a URI of the second media analysis service the first media analysis service transmits an application layer protocol message to the URI of the second media analysis service the message providing data relating to the first media analysis result the second media analysis service performing a second media analysis on the first media analysis result while the communication session is active to generate a second media analysis result the second media analysis result being different from the first media analysis result.

In some implementations the media is real time media and the first media analysis service performs real time media analysis on the real time media. In some implementations the media is stored media and the first media analysis service performs asynchronous media analysis on the stored media.

In some embodiments in which the second media analysis service is activated the media is real time media and the first media analysis service performs real time media analysis on the real time media. In some embodiments in which the second media analysis service is activated the media is stored media and the first media analysis service performs asynchronous media analysis on the stored media.

In some embodiments in which the second media analysis service is activated the media is real time media and the second media analysis service performs real time media analysis on the real time media. In some embodiments in which the second media analysis service is activated the media is stored media and the second media analysis service performs asynchronous media analysis on the stored media.

In some implementations the first media analysis service is a sentiment and emotion detection service. In some implementations in which a second media analysis service is activated the second media analysis service is a sentiment and emotion detection service and the first media analysis service is a different media analysis service. In some implementations in which a second media analysis service is activated the first media analysis service is a sentiment and emotion detection service and the second media analysis service is a different media analysis service.

In some embodiments the method includes de activating the first media analysis service e.g. of the micro services of of the plurality of media analysis services for at least a portion of an active communication session of an entity e.g. an entity of one of systems in the platform system the platform system de activating the first media analysis service responsive to a de activation REST API call provided by the external system. In some implementations the REST API call to de activate the first media analysis service specifies at least the communication session and at least the first activated media analysis service. In some implementations the de activation REST API call specifies the communication session by using a session ID of a communication session of the communication micro service e.g. of the platform . In some implementations the REST API call to de activate the first media analysis service specifies at least the first activated media analysis service. In some implementations the REST API call to de activate the first media analysis service specifies at least the first activated media analysis service and a media identifier.

In some implementations the first media analysis service is de activated for a specified active communication session. In some implementations the first media analysis service is de activated for all active communication sessions of the entity.

In some embodiments the method includes configuring the first media analysis service e.g. of the micro services of of the plurality of media analysis services for at least a portion of an active communication session of an entity e.g. an entity of one of systems in the platform system the platform system configuring the first media analysis service responsive to a configuration REST API call provided by the external system. In some implementations the REST API call to configure the first media analysis service specifies at least the first activated media analysis service and specifies configuration for at least the first activated media analysis service. In some implementations the REST API call to configure the first media analysis service specifies the active communication session specifies at least the first activated media analysis service and specifies configuration for at least the first activated media analysis service. In some implementations configuration of the configuration REST API call includes the callback URI of the first media analysis service.

In some implementations the activation REST API call specifies the communication session by using a session ID of a communication session of the communication micro service e.g. of the platform .

In some implementations the REST API call to configure the first media analysis service specifies at least the first activated media analysis service and specifies configuration for at least the first activated media analysis service. In some implementations the REST API call to configure the first media analysis service specifies at least the first activated media analysis service and specifies configuration for at least the first activated media analysis service and a media identifier.

In some implementations the first media analysis service is configured for a specified active communication session such as for example a pre established communication session that is active prior to configuration of the first media analysis service. In some implementations the first media analysis service is configured for all active communication sessions of the entity.

In some embodiments the activation REST API specifies a customized media analysis service that includes a customized media analysis process routine as the first media analysis service as described above for block S. In some embodiments the activation REST API includes program instructions or a link to program instructions for the customized media analysis service and responsive to the activation REST API request the platform system generates a customized media analysis micro service e.g. that provides a media analysis service according to the received program instructions.

In some embodiments the activation REST API includes program instructions or a link to program instructions for the customized media analysis service and responsive to the activation REST API request the platform system controls a communication micro service e.g. to provide a media analysis service according to the received program instructions.

In some implementations the REST API call is an API call of the Platform API System . In some implementations the REST API call is an API call of the first media analysis service e.g. an API call of one of the media analysis micro service APIs . In some implementations the REST API call is an API call of a communication service of the platform e.g. an API call of the communication micro service API .

In some implementations an activation REST API call is an API call of the Platform API System . In some implementations an activation REST API call is an API call of a respective media analysis service e.g. an API call of one of the media analysis micro service APIs . In some implementations an activation REST API call is an API call of a communication service of the platform e.g. an API call of the communication micro service API .

In some implementations a de activation REST API call is an API call of the Platform API System . In some implementations a de activation REST API call is an API call of a respective media analysis service e.g. an API call of one of the media analysis micro service APIs . In some implementations a de activation REST API call is an API call of a communication service of the platform e.g. an API call of the communication micro service API .

In some implementations a configuration REST API call is an API call of the Platform API System . In some implementations a configuration REST API call is an API call of a respective media analysis service e.g. an API call of one of the media analysis micro service APIs . In some implementations a configuration REST API call is an API call of a communication service of the platform e.g. an API call of the communication micro service API .

In some implementations the activation REST API call to activate the first media analysis service includes or references the media of the communication session specifies at least the first activated media analysis service and the activation REST API call is an API all of the first media analysis service e.g. an API call of one of the media analysis micro service APIs . For example as shown in in an exemplary API call the ENTITY E System provides an activation REST API call to the media analysis micro service C via the micro service s API and the activation REST API call provides the media to be analyzed by the media analysis service of the micro service . In such an example the media can be media of a communication session that is managed by a communication platform or service that is external to the platform system . In such an example the micro service can be implemented as a sentiment and emotion detection media analysis micro service.

In some embodiments the method includes the system training at least one media analysis service by using the first media analysis result. In some embodiments the method includes the system training at least one media analysis service by using the first media analysis result and user feedback provided by an external system e.g. via a feedback API of the system e.g. a feedback API of the API system . In some implementations the system receives user feedback via the feedback API the feedback indicating a quality of media analysis provided by the first media analysis service and the system trains the first media analysis service based on the received feedback. In some implementations the system maintains a history data that includes media analysis results and corresponding media and user feedback of the first media analysis service and the system trains the first media analysis service by using the history data.

In some embodiments the method includes during the active communication session applying the first media analysis result by transmitting at least one application layer protocol message to at least one callback URI of a communication service of the platform system e.g. a callback URI of the communication micro service such as for example a callback URI corresponding to the communication micro service API of the entity the at least one application layer protocol message providing the first media analysis result.

In some embodiments the method includes providing access to the first media analysis result as described above for S.

In some implementations providing access to the first media analysis result includes indexing communication sessions according to analysis results. Indexing can make the communications searchable using media analysis properties. Additionally the indexing can enable fuzzy search based on classification probabilities. For example a search for angry communications may return conversations ordered by highest probability of anger to lower probability of anger. Different types of media analysis can be applied in different ways. Transcription is preferably indexed for searchability. The transcript can additionally be linked or associated with a communication. Language detection sentiment content classification context speaker detection and other properties can be tags associated with a communication or a particular segment of a communication.

In some implementations providing access to the first media analysis result includes the platform system providing stored communication records via at least one of an API e.g. of a browsable user interface an analytics portal or any suitable interface. In some implementations the platform system stores communication records e.g. call records messaging records etc. of a communication system e.g. a communication system of the platform system a communication system of the micro service a communication system external to the system . In some implementations the system provides an external system e.g. with the stored communication records via at least one of an API a browsable user interface an analytics portal or any suitable interface the communication records being communication records of an account of the platform system e.g. an account managed by the account system that is associated with the external system. In some implementations the external system provides an API request e.g. via the API to receive communication records for an account specified in the API request and the platform system provides the communication records for the account to the external system via the API of the platform.

In some implementations the communication records include information for at least one communication session and information for each communication session includes at least one of endpoint information for each communication endpoint of the communication session an account or sub account associated with the communication session endpoint device information e.g. of a device of for at least one communication endpoint of the communication session a time period of the communication session at least one location associated with the communication session and media analysis results associated with the communication session. In some implementations media analysis results included in communication records includes the first media analysis result. In some implementations media analysis results included in communication records includes transcription information for a communication session language detection information for a communication session sentiment detection information for a communication session emotion detection information for a communication session content classification information for a communication session context information for a communication session and speaker detection information for a communication session. In some implementations media analysis results are stored in the communication records as tags associated with a communication session or a particular segment of a communication session . In some implementations transcription information for a communication session that is included in communication records e.g. communication records for a platform account is indexed for searchability.

In some implementations a request by an external system e.g. one of the app servers for the stored communication records e.g. provided via at least one of an API a browsable user interface an analytics portal or any suitable interface e.g. communication records of a platform system account of the external system specifies media analysis results properties and the platform system provides the external system with communication records that match the specified media analysis results properties. In some implementations the provided communication records for each communication session include media analysis results information that matches the media analysis results properties specified in the request provided by the external system. In some implementations the platform system e.g. indexes the media analysis results information of the communication records such that the media analysis results information can be queried. As an example an entity can provide a request for communication records of communication sessions in which results of a sentiment and emotion detection media analysis indicates anger and communication sessions in the communication records can be ordered by highest probability of anger to lower probability of anger. As an example an entity can provide a request for communication records of communication sessions in which results of a sentiment and emotion detection media analysis indicates anger and results of a transcription media analysis service indicates that overbilling was discussed and communication sessions in the communication records can be ordered by highest probability of anger to lower probability of anger.

In some embodiments the process S is similar to Silo of . In some embodiments the process S is similar to S of . In some embodiments the media of the active communication session is collected as described above for S of . In some embodiments the process S is similar to S of . In some embodiments the process S is similar to S of . In some embodiments the process S is similar to S of . In some embodiments the process S is similar to S of . In some embodiments the process S is similar to S of .

In some embodiments the first media analysis service is a sentiment and emotion detection service. The active communication session is a communication session between at least a first communication endpoint device e.g. of and a second communication endpoint device e.g. of the first communication endpoint device and the second communication endpoint device each being external to the platform system e.g. of . The first media analysis service is constructed to perform media analysis on media of the communication session between at least the first communication endpoint device and the second communication endpoint device. The active communication session is at least one of a peer to peer communication session and a real time communication session and the media is a real time media stream.

In some embodiments the platform system activates a second media analysis service of the plurality of media analysis services. The platform system activates the second media analysis service responsive to a REST API call provided by an external system e.g. of the entity. The second activated media analysis service performs a second media analysis to generate a second media analysis result.

In some embodiment the media is real time media and the first media analysis service performs real time media analysis on the real time media and the second activated media analysis service performs real time media analysis on at least one of the real time media and the first media analysis result.

In some embodiments during the active communication session the platform system e.g. applies the second media analysis result by transmitting at least one application layer protocol message to a communication service e.g. of the micro service of of the platform system the at least one application layer protocol message providing the second media analysis result.

In some embodiments the media is real time media and the first media analysis service performs real time media analysis on the real time media and the second activated media analysis service performs asynchronous media analysis on stored media.

In some embodiments activating the first media analysis service includes the platform system selecting at least the sentiment and emotion detection service as the first media analysis service from the plurality of media analysis services of the platform system the plurality of media analysis services including the sentiment and emotion detection service and at least one of a context analysis service and a computer vision service and the platform system activating each selected media analysis service.

In some embodiments the REST API specifies at least the communication session and at least the first activated media analysis service.

In some embodiments the method includes at least one of at the multi tenant media processing platform system de activating the first media analysis service responsive to a de activation REST API call provided by an external system of the entity the de activation REST API call specifying the communication session and at the multi tenant media processing platform system configuring the first media analysis service responsive to a configuration REST API call provided by an external system of the entity the configuration REST API call specifying the communication session.

In some embodiment the platform system trains at least one media analysis service by using the first media analysis result and user feedback provided by an external system e.g. via a feedback API of the platform system. The platform system receives user feedback via the feedback API the feedback indicating a quality of media analysis provided by the first media analysis service and the platform system trains the first media analysis service based on the received feedback.

In some embodiments the platform system maintains history data that includes media analysis results and corresponding media and user feedback of the first media analysis service and the platform system trains the first media analysis service by using the history data.

In some embodiments the REST API specifies program instructions for a customized media analysis service and responsive to the REST API request the platform system performs at least one of generation of a customized media analysis service according to the received program instructions and control of a communication service of the platform system to provide a media analysis service according to the received program instructions.

In some implementations the process S is performed by the API system . In some implementations the process S is performed by at least one micro service e.g. . In some implementations the process S is performed by the API system and at least one micro service. In some implementations the process S is performed by the API system at least one micro service and the operations services . In some implementations the process S is performed by the operational services . In some implementations the process S is performed by the account system . In some implementations the process S is performed by the account system and the policy engine . In some implementations the process S is performed by two or more of the account system the policy engine and the MS interface .

In some implementations the process S is performed by at least one media analysis micro service e.g. . In some implementations the process S is performed by the API system and at least one media analysis micro service. In some implementations the process S is performed by the API system at least one media analysis micro service and the operations services .

In some implementations the process S is performed by the API system . In some implementations the process S is performed by at least one micro service e.g. . In some implementations the process S is performed by the API system and at least one micro service. In some implementations the process S is performed by the API system at least one micro service and the operations services . In some implementations the process S is performed by the operational services . In some implementations the process S is performed by the account system . In some implementations the process S is performed by the account system and the policy engine . In some implementations the process S is performed by two or more of the account system the policy engine and the MS interface .

In some implementations the process S is performed by the API system . In some implementations the process S is performed by at least one micro service e.g. . In some implementations the process S is performed by the API system and at least one micro service. In some implementations the process S is performed by the API system at least one micro service and the operations services . In some implementations the process S is performed by the operational services . In some implementations the process S is performed by the account system . In some implementations the process S is performed by the account system and the policy engine . In some implementations the process S is performed by two or more of the account system the policy engine and the MS interface .

In some implementations the process S is performed by the API system . In some implementations the process S is performed by at least one micro service e.g. . In some implementations the process S is performed by the API system and at least one micro service. In some implementations the process S is performed by the API system at least one micro service and the operations services . In some implementations the process S is performed by the operational services . In some implementations the process S is performed by the account system . In some implementations the process S is performed by the account system and the policy engine . In some implementations the process S is performed by two or more of the account system the policy engine and the MS interface .

As shown in the method is performed at a multi tenant media processing platform system e.g. the system of that includes a plurality of media analysis services e.g. implemented as micro services of .

The method includes activating a first media analysis service e.g. of of and a second media analysis service e.g. of of of the plurality of media analysis services for at least a portion of an active communication session e.g. a communication session of the communication micro service of an entity e.g. an entity of one of the systems in the platform system process S the first activated media analysis service performing a first media analysis on the collected media while the communication session is active to generate a first media analysis result process S the second activated media analysis service performing a second media analysis on the collected media while the communication session is active to generate a second media analysis result the second media analysis being different from the first media analysis process S during the active communication session applying the first media analysis result and the second media analysis result process S accounting for the use of the first activated media analysis service on behalf of the entity process S accounting for the use of the second activated media analysis service on behalf of the entity the platform system accounting for the use of the second activated media analysis service independently from the accounting for the use of the first activated media analysis service process S generating billing information for the entity based on the accounting for the use of the first activated media analysis service and the accounting for the use of the second activated media analysis service process S .

The platform system activates each media analysis service responsive to at least one of a determination by the platform system that at least one property of media of the active communication session that is collected by the platform system maps to at least one setting of entity platform configuration that enables media analysis the entity platform configuration being platform configuration of the entity in the platform system a communication application instruction as described herein a REST API call as described herein and a SIP message as described herein . In some embodiments the REST API call is provided by an external system of the entity. In some embodiments the communication application instruction is provided by an external system of the entity. In some embodiments the SIP message is provided by an external system of the entity.

The platform system applies the first media analysis result and the second media analysis result by at least one of changing the active communication session in response to at least one of the first media analysis result and the second media analysis result and transmitting at least one application layer protocol message to at least one callback URI of an external system e.g. of the entity the at least one callback URI being specified by the entity platform configuration the at least one application layer protocol message providing at least one of the first media analysis result and the second media analysis result.

The entity platform configuration is provided by at least one external system e.g. via an account management interface e.g. of the platform API system of of the media processing platform system the account management interface including a least one of an account portal user interface and an account management API.

The first media analysis service and the second media analysis service are both active during at least a portion of the active communication session.

In some embodiments the plurality of media analysis services includes at least one of a sentiment and emotion detection service a transcription service a language detection service a content detection service an intent detection service a speaker detection service a context analysis service a computer vision service and a natural language processing service.

In some embodiments the plurality of media analysis services includes at least one of a sentiment and emotion detection service a context analysis service and a computer vision service.

In some embodiments the plurality of media analysis services includes at least one of a sentiment and emotion detection service.

In some embodiments the plurality of media analysis services includes at least one of a sentiment and emotion detection service a language detection service an intent detection service a speaker detection service a context analysis service and a computer vision service.

In some embodiments the active communication session is a communication session between at least a first communication endpoint device e.g. the endpoint device of and a second communication endpoint device e.g. the endpoint device of the first communication endpoint device and the second communication endpoint device each being external to the platform system and each media analysis service is constructed to perform media analysis on media of the communication session between at least the first communication endpoint device and the second communication endpoint device.

In some embodiments applying the first media analysis result and the second media analysis result includes transmitting at least one application layer protocol message to at least one callback URI of a communication service of the platform system e.g. a callback URI of the communication micro service such as for example a callback URI corresponding to the communication micro service API of the entity the at least one application layer protocol message providing at least one of the first media analysis result and the second media analysis result.

In some implementations a media analysis micro service e.g. performs at least one of the processes S S. In some implementations the communication micro service e.g. performs at least one of the processes S S. In some implementations the platform API system performs at least one of the processes S S. In some implementations the operational services performs at least one of the processes S S.

As shown in the method is performed at a multi tenant media processing platform system e.g. the system of that includes a plurality of media analysis services e.g. implemented as micro services of .

The method includes activating at least a first media analysis service e.g. of the micro service of and a second media analysis service e.g. of the micro service of of the plurality of media analysis services for at least a portion of an active communication session of an entity e.g. of a system in the platform system process S the first media analysis service collecting media of the active communication session process S the first media analysis service performing a first media analysis on the collected media while the communication session is active to generate a first media analysis result process S the first media analysis service transmitting an application layer protocol message to a Uniform Resource Identifier URI of the second media analysis service the application layer protocol message providing data relating to the first media analysis result process the second media analysis service performing a second media analysis on the first media analysis result while the communication session is active to generate a second media analysis result the second media analysis being different from the first media analysis process S during the active communication session applying the second media analysis result process S . A callback URI parameter of the first media analysis service e.g. stored as entity platform configuration for the entity is configured to specify the URI of the second media analysis service. The first media analysis service and the second media analysis service are both active during at least a portion of the active communication session.

In some embodiments the application layer protocol message is an API call in accordance with an API of a media analysis micro service e.g. API of of the second media analysis service.

In some embodiments applying the second media analysis result includes transmitting at least one application layer protocol message to at least one callback URI of an external system e.g. of the entity the at least one callback URI being specified by a REST API call provided by the external system of the entity the at least one application layer protocol message providing the second media analysis result.

In some embodiments applying the second media analysis result includes transmitting at least one application layer protocol message to at least one callback URI of a communication service of the platform system e.g. a callback URI of the communication micro service such as for example a callback URI corresponding to the communication micro service API of the entity the at least one application layer protocol message providing the second media analysis result.

In some embodiments the plurality of media analysis services includes at least one of a sentiment and emotion detection service a transcription service a language detection service a content detection service an intent detection service a speaker detection service a context analysis service a computer vision service and a natural language processing service.

In some embodiments the plurality of media analysis services includes at least one of a sentiment and emotion detection service a context analysis service and a computer vision service.

In some embodiments the plurality of media analysis services includes at least one of a sentiment and emotion detection service.

In some embodiments the plurality of media analysis services includes at least one of a sentiment and emotion detection service a language detection service an intent detection service a speaker detection service a context analysis service and a computer vision service.

In some embodiments the active communication session is a communication session between at least a first communication endpoint device e.g. the endpoint device of and a second communication endpoint device e.g. the endpoint device of the first communication endpoint device and the second communication endpoint device each being external to the platform system and the first media analysis service is constructed to perform media analysis on media of the communication session between at least the first communication endpoint device and the second communication endpoint device.

In some implementations a media analysis micro service e.g. performs at least one of the processes S S. In some implementations the communication micro service e.g. performs at least one of the processes S S. In some implementations the platform API system performs at least one of the processes S S. In some implementations the operational services performs at least one of the processes S S.

The bus interfaces with the processors A N the main memory e.g. a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a processor readable storage medium and a network device . In some implementations the system includes at least one of a display device and a user input device.

In some implementations the system e.g. includes at least one of a central processing unit processor and a multi processor unit MPU .

The processors A N and the main memory form a processing unit . In some embodiments the processing unit includes one or more processors communicatively coupled to one or more of a RAM ROM and machine readable storage medium the one or more processors of the processing unit receive instructions stored by the one or more of a RAM ROM and machine readable storage medium via a bus and the one or more processors execute the received instructions. In some embodiments the processing unit is an ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit . In some embodiments the processing unit is a SoC System on Chip . In some embodiments the processing unit includes one or more of the operational services the platform API system and one or more micro services.

The network adapter device provides one or more wired or wireless interfaces for exchanging data and commands between the system e.g. and other devices such as an external system e.g. . Such wired and wireless interfaces include for example a universal serial bus USB interface Bluetooth interface Wi Fi interface Ethernet interface near field communication NFC interface and the like.

Machine executable instructions in software programs such as an operating system application programs and device drivers are loaded into the memory of the processing unit from the processor readable storage medium the ROM or any other storage location. During execution of these software programs the respective machine executable instructions are accessed by at least one of processors A N of the processing unit via the bus and then executed by at least one of processors A N. Data used by the software programs are also stored in the memory and such data is accessed by at least one of processors A N during execution of the machine executable instructions of the software programs. The processor readable storage medium is one of or a combination of two or more of a hard drive a flash drive a DVD a CD an optical disk a floppy disk a flash storage a solid state drive a ROM an EEPROM an electronic circuit a semiconductor memory device and the like. The processor readable storage medium includes machine executable instructions and related data for an operating system software programs device drivers and the communication platform of the system . The machine executable instructions and related data for the communication platform include machine executable instructions and related data for the operational services the platform API System and the micro services .

The bus interfaces with the processors A N the main memory e.g. a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a processor readable storage medium and a network device . In some implementations the external system includes a display device and a user input device.

In some implementations the server device includes at least one of a central processing unit processor and a multi processor unit MPU .

The processors A N and the main memory form a processing unit . In some embodiments the processing unit includes one or more processors communicatively coupled to one or more of a RAM ROM and machine readable storage medium the one or more processors of the processing unit receive instructions stored by the one or more of a RAM ROM and machine readable storage medium via a bus and the one or more processors execute the received instructions. In some embodiments the processing unit is an ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit . In some embodiments the processing unit is a SoC System on Chip .

The network adapter device provides one or more wired or wireless interfaces for exchanging data and commands between the external system and other devices such as the system of . Such wired and wireless interfaces include for example a universal serial bus USB interface Bluetooth interface Wi Fi interface Ethernet interface near field communication NFC interface and the like.

Machine executable instructions in software programs such as an operating system application programs and device drivers are loaded into the memory of the processing unit from the processor readable storage medium the ROM or any other storage location. During execution of these software programs the respective machine executable instructions are accessed by at least one of processors A N of the processing unit via the bus and then executed by at least one of processors A N. Data used by the software programs are also stored in the memory and such data is accessed by at least one of processors A N during execution of the machine executable instructions of the software programs. The processor readable storage medium is one of or a combination of two or more of a hard drive a flash drive a DVD a CD an optical disk a floppy disk a flash storage a solid state drive a ROM an EEPROM an electronic circuit a semiconductor memory device and the like. The processor readable storage medium includes machine executable instructions and related data for an operating system software programs device drivers and data .

The systems and methods of the preferred embodiments and variations thereof can be embodied and or implemented at least in part as a machine configured to receive a computer readable medium storing computer readable instructions. The instructions are preferably executed by computer executable components preferably integrated with the media intelligence platform. The computer readable medium can be stored on any suitable computer readable media such as RAMs ROMs flash memory EEPROMs optical devices CD or DVD hard drives floppy drives or any suitable device. The computer executable component is preferably a general or application specific processor but any suitable dedicated hardware or hardware firmware combination device can alternatively or additionally execute the instructions.

As a person skilled in the art will recognize from the previous detailed description and from the figures and claims modifications and changes can be made to the preferred embodiments of the invention without departing from the scope of this invention defined in the following claims.

