---

title: Access control interfaces for enhanced wireless router
abstract: A wireless router provides access control to information resources stored at the wireless router. The wireless router supports user profiles and/or device profiles that respectively enable user level and/or device level access control. The wireless router may register users via a user registration interface presented by the client device. The wireless router may register client devices using a device identifier. Requests to initiate a communication session may be received by the wireless router from client devices over a wireless local area network. The wireless router may authenticate a client device based on a device identifier and/or authenticate a user based on user credentials obtained via a login interface presented by the client device. The wireless router may control access to information resources stored at the wireless router during the communication session based, at least in part, on access privileges for the authenticated client device and/or authenticated user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09635553&OS=09635553&RS=09635553
owner: 
number: 09635553
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20160229
---
The present application claims priority to and is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 331 600 titled ACCESS CONTROL INTERFACES FOR ENHANCED WIRELESS ROUTER filed Jul. 15 2014 to be issued as U.S. Pat. No. 9 277 405 which claims priority to and is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 431 095 titled ACCESS CONTROL INTERFACES FOR ENHANCED WIRELESS ROUTER filed Mar. 27 2012 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 782 741 which claims priority to and is a non provisional of U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 61 540 895 titled SMART ROUTER filed Sep. 29 2011. The entire contents of each of these applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

On premises wireless routers provide wireless local area network WLAN access to client devices in both home and business environments. Wireless routers perform a number of different functions including a router function a wireless access point function and a network switch function. Wireless routers are often connected to a wide area network WAN such as the Internet via a high capacity communications link to provide client devices of the WLAN with high speed access to network resources of the WAN. Wireless routers serve as gateways for multiple client devices to concurrently access wide area networks.

A wireless router provides access control to information resources stored at the wireless router. The wireless router supports user profiles and or device profiles that respectively enable user level and or device level access control. The wireless router may register users by creating a user profile that contains registration information obtained via a user registration interface presented by the client device. The wireless router may register client devices by creating a device profile that contains the device identifier of the client device. Requests to initiate a communication session may be received by the wireless router from client devices over a wireless local area network. The wireless router may authenticate a client device based on a device identifier and or authenticate a user based on user credentials obtained via a login interface presented by the client device. The wireless router may establish the requested communication session between the wireless router and the authenticated client device. The wireless router may control access to information resources stored at the wireless router during the communication session based at least in part on access privileges for the authenticated client device and or authenticated user. Claimed subject matter however is not limited by this summary as other examples may be disclosed by the following written description and associated drawings.

Wireless router includes communications interface to support wired and or wireless communications between client devices of LAN and network server devices of WAN . Communications interface may include one or more wired and or wireless transceivers modems or other suitable electronic devices to facilitate communications with other computing devices. Communications interface may provide or support a router function a wireless access point function and a network switch function. Wireless router may establish communications sessions with client devices of LAN and may route communications among these client devices and or between these client devices and network server devices of WAN . As one example client devices and may share information resources with each other via wireless router and or may request and receive information resources e.g. information resource from network server devices of the WAN e.g. server device via wireless router .

WAN may take the form of the Internet or a portion thereof. LAN may support wired and or wireless communications between wireless router and client devices and . If supported wired communications within LAN may include Ethernet powerline Ethernet or other suitable form of wired communications. LAN may support communications through any suitable type and or number of wireless protocol standards. For example LAN may support one or more of the following standards Wi Fi e.g. 802.11 Wi MAX e.g. 802.16 LTE e.g. 3GPP TS 36 UMTS e.g. 3GPP TS 25 CDMA Bluetooth or other suitable wireless protocol.

Wireless router may include a processor system to execute instructions . Processor system may include one or more processors. Instructions may be held in a storage system . Storage system may include one or more storage devices. As one example storage system may take the form of non volatile memory. For example storage system may include a hard drive flash memory device or other suitable non volatile storage device. Wireless router may further include volatile memory which may be used in combination with non volatile memory of storage system by processor system to execute instructions . Instructions may include or take the form of software and or firmware. For example instructions may include or form part of an operating system of wireless router an application program a software component such as a plug in or other suitable instruction set or combination thereof.

Wireless router may perform a number of different functions including a router function a wireless access point function a network switch function an information resource storage function and an access control function with respect to the stored information resources. In some implementations functionality provided by wireless router may be supported at least in part by associated e.g. paired instructions e.g. software and or firmware executed at a client device and or associated instructions e.g. software and or firmware executed at a network server device. As one example an operating system or application program of client device e.g. represented as instructions may operate in combination with instructions of wireless router . For example an application program operating at client device may initiate application programming interface API calls that may be received over LAN by operating system of wireless router via an API. As another example software residing at a network server device e.g. server device of WAN may operate in combination with instructions of wireless router .

Storage system of wireless router may include a data store . Information may be stored at and or retrieved from data store by processor system . Such information may include information resources e.g. electronic files programs session states etc. device profiles and user profiles among other suitable information. A non limiting example of data store is described in greater detail with reference to . In contrast to traditional data caches storage system of wireless router may additionally or alternatively contain short term information such as session data and or permanent or long term information such as profile information and information resources including objects such as data dictionaries or renderable content such as chunks of movie data or other media content. Accordingly wireless router may include volatile storage such as RAM non volatile storage such as FLASH memory a hard drive etc.

Client devices and may take the form of a personal computer mobile computing device mobile communications device e.g. Internet enabled phone television set top box or other suitable electronic device. As one example a client device such as client device may include a processor system to execute instructions held in storage system . Instructions may include or take the form of software and or firmware. For example instructions may form part of an operating system of client device an application program a software component such as a plug in or other suitable instruction set or combination thereof. Instructions may be executed by processor system to present one or more of the interfaces described herein for example at a display device via input output interfaces . Input output interfaces may receive user inputs directed at a keyboard a touch sensitive display device a pointer device e.g. a computer mouse or other suitable input device. In at least some implementations instructions of client device may be configured to operate in coordination with or may be paired with instructions of wireless router . Storage system may include a data store . Information may be stored at and or retrieved from data store by processor system . Some client devices such as client device may be further configured for WAN access without traversing wireless router . As one example client device may further support wireless connectivity via a mobile broadband technology such as for example 3G or 4G.

At the wireless router may transmit a user registration interface to the client device over the wireless local area network for registering the user. The user registration interface may be presented by the client device such as via a display device. In at least some implementations the user registration interface may be transmitted to the client device and or presented at the client device in response to one of the wireless router and the client device discovering the other. In at least some implementations the wireless router may not transmit the registration interface to the client device but instead a program residing at the client device may present the registration interface in response to detecting the wireless router over the wireless local area network. For example the program residing at the client device may be paired with or operate in cooperation with the wireless router.

At the method may include receiving a user credential at the wireless router from the client device over the wireless local area network. The user credential may be obtained as one or more user inputs directed at the user registration interface presented by the client device. As one example the user credential may take the form of a user name and or password or may be at least based in part on a user name and or password e.g. a hashed value .

At the user may be registered by storing the user credential at the wireless router associated with a user profile created at . The user credential registered by the wireless router may be referred to as the registered user credential for the user. At access privileges for the user may be set by the wireless router at the user profile. An example user profile and access privileges are described in greater detail with reference to .

During a usage phase following the registration phase the client device may request to initiate a communication session. In at least some implementations a device identifier may form part of the request. The device identifier may be based at least in part on a hardware component and or a software component of the client device. As one example the device identifier may include a MAC address. The wireless router receives the request to initiate a communication session over the wireless local area network from the client device. At the wireless router may authenticate the client device based at least in part on the device identifier. For example the wireless router may authenticate the client device by comparing the device identifier to the registered device identifier and if valid grant access to the client device in accordance with the access privileges for the authenticated client device. The wireless router may determine device settings for the authenticated client device based on the device profile stored at the wireless router for the device identifier. The device settings may include or otherwise indicate the access privileges for the client device.

At the wireless router may receive a user credential from the client device over a wireless local area network. The user credential may be transmitted over the wireless local area network by the client device responsive to a challenge issued by the wireless router or by a program executed at the client device. As one example the challenge may be issued by the wireless router that directs a program executed at the client device to present the login interface by which the user credential is obtained from the user. In at least some implementations authentication of the user may be performed responsive to the request to initiate the communication session if a threshold period of time has been exceeded since a previous authentication of the user by the wireless router. The wireless router may withhold a challenge to the user if the threshold period of time has not been exceeded. The user may be authenticated during this threshold time period based on one or more of the device identifier and or an authentication state cookie previously transmitted to the client device and returned by the client device with the request. As one example the wireless router may maintain a state table with timers for each client device identifier. As another example the wireless router may write store and transmit to a client device an authentication state cookie with an encrypted value that identifies authentication state authentication time etc. Authentication state cookies may be used for example in the context of client devices that employ web browsers to initiate communications with the wireless router and or WAN.

The user credential may be obtained as one or more user inputs directed at a login interface presented by the client device for example. At the wireless router may authenticate the user of the client device based at least in part on the user credential. The wireless router may determine user settings based at least in part on the user profile stored at the wireless router for the authenticated user of the client device. The user settings may include the access privileges for the authenticated user.

At the wireless router may establish the communication session with the authenticated client device for example by sending a response to the authenticated client device over the wireless local area network. As part of the response or set of responses by the wireless router the wireless router may transmit an indication to the authenticated client device of the information resources accessible to the authenticated client device for presentation via a profile interface. The profile interface will be described in greater detail with reference to .

At the client device may request access to an information resource stored at the wireless local area network. The wireless router receives the access request from the client device over the wireless local area network. The wireless router may authenticate a user by comparing the registered user credential to the user credential received from the client device to determine if the user credential is valid.

At the wireless router controls access to the requested information resources stored at the wireless router or accessible to the wireless router from a remote networking device during the communication session based at least in part on one or more of the device settings e.g. access privileges for the authenticated client device and or the user settings e.g. access privileges for the authenticated user. For example at the wireless router may control access to the information resources by granting the authenticated client device access to a first subset of the information resources stored at the wireless router associated with the device profile as indicated by the device settings and by denying the authenticated client device access to a second subset of the information resources stored at the wireless router not associated with the device profile as indicated by the device settings.

As indicated at access that is granted to the information resource e.g. such as an electronic file session state or program may be stored locally at the wireless router or may be served by a local server device via the wireless router. An information resource may also be served by a remote server device over the wide area network. If the information resource resides at a server device that is remote from wireless router then the wireless router may transmit a request for the information resource over a communications network e.g. a WAN LAN etc. and receive the information resource as a response. The wireless router transmits the information resource or associated information requested by the client device to the client device over the wireless local area network to fulfill the access request.

Access to the information resources stored at the wireless router during a communication session may be based at least in part on both the user settings for the authenticated user and the device settings for the authenticated client device or may be based on only one of the user settings or the device settings depending on the access privileges associated with the particular information resource. The wireless router may for example control access to the information resources by granting the authenticated client device access to a first subset of the information resources associated with both the device profile as indicated by the device settings and the user profile as indicated by the user settings and may deny the authenticated client device access to a second subset of the information resources not associated with both the device profile and the user profile.

As previously discussed information resources may include one or more of an electronic file and or a session state of a prior communication session or program session stored at the wireless router. Access to the electronic file or the session state stored at the wireless router may be controlled by enabling retrieval of the electronic file or continuation of the prior communication session or program session based on the session state by the authenticated client device or by enabling sharing of the electronic file or the session state by the authenticated client device with another client device indicated by the access privileges. Access control with respect to electronic files may include any suitable type of access control including write privileges read privileges copy privileges share privileges etc. The information resources may include a program executed at the wireless router as previously discussed. Access to the program executed at or executable by the wireless router may be controlled for example by initiating execution of the program by the authenticated user enabling program control commands to be passed from the authenticated client device to the program and or enabling responses generated by the program to be passed to the authenticated client device.

The wireless router may be configured to store a plurality of device profiles and a plurality of user profiles. If a user utilizes a different client device than used in a prior session to login to the wireless router the wireless router may receive and store a device identifier of the different client device at the wireless router associated with a different device profile. The device identifier of the different client device may also be associated with the user profile in an account identity as will be described in greater detail with reference to . Accordingly the wireless router may maintain a record of the various devices operated by each user. Additionally or alternatively the wireless router may maintain a record of the various users logging in via each client device.

User profile may include or be associated with one or more of registered user credentials access privileges and or user data . As previously described with reference to user credentials may be used by a wireless router to authenticate a user. User credentials may take the form of a user name and or password or other suitable information that may be used to authenticate a user. User credentials may be provided by a user as part of a registration process after which the registered user credentials may be compared to user credentials provided by a user in response to a subsequent challenge to determine whether access is to be granted or denied. User data may include or indicate other suitable information to be associated with a user profile including for example the user s email address physical mailing address telephone number financial billing information user preference settings etc.

Device profile may include or be associated with one or more of a device identifier access privileges and or device data . Device identifier may indicate or may be based on a hardware component and or a software component of a client device. For example device identifier may include a MAC address of the client device. Device data may include or indicate any other suitable information to be associated with a device profile including for example device capabilities software version device configurations etc. Information resources associated with account identity may include one or more electronic files session states and or programs .

The wireless router may create store and reference any suitable number of account identities for one or more users and or one or more client devices. For example method of may be implemented by a wireless router based on information indicated by or associated with one or more account identities. Access privileges of user profile and or access privileges of device profile collectively referred to as access privileges of an account identity may define one or more user profiles and or one or more device profiles that are to be granted access to information resources or a subset of information resources . In order from less limited access control to more limited access control these access privileges may indicate with respect to an individual information resource that access is to be granted only to 1 any user via any client device 2 any user via one or more specified client devices associated with device profile and or other device profiles 3 one or more specified users associated with user profile and or other user profiles via any client device 4 a particular user associated with user profile via any client device 5 a particular user associated with user profile via one or more specified client devices associated with device profile and or other device profiles 6 any user via a particular client device associated with device profile or 7 a particular user associated with user profile via a particular client device associated with device profile .

As a non limiting example a user may operate a client device to provide user inputs via a registration interface for user registration to establish a user profile at the wireless router and to provide user inputs via a login interface for user authentication. Device registration may also be performed for client device to establish a device profile at the wireless router and for authentication of client device . User may provide user inputs via a profile interface to select browse or otherwise interact with information resources and associated access privileges. For example profile interface lists information resources A B C accessible to user via client device . Profile interface may also provide one or more user controls D E F to adjust access privileges or otherwise interact with the wireless router. As one example to share an information resource with another user user may grant permission to user that accesses the wireless router via a different client device or via the same client device . User may direct user inputs to the user controls of the profile interface to cause the wireless router to add user to or alternatively remove user from the access privileges associated with the shared information resource on either a user level a device level or a combination of a user level and device level.

In GUI includes a sessions list from the perspective of a user profile for user Sally . The sessions list includes a number of selectable session states including Sally s network sessions that may be re established with a server device of the WAN Sally s program sessions that may be re established with a program executed at or executable by the wireless router and other user s sessions that are accessible to Sally based on access privileges set by those other users. The selectable session states may take the form of a graphical element or hyperlink e.g. URL to which a user input may be directed in order to re establish a select session. User Sally may establish a new communications session for example by selecting a New Session control element.

GUI includes a permissions list from the perspective of the user profile for Sally. The permissions list enables Sally to define access privileges to information resources including session states programs and or files. GUI includes example access privileges set for other users Mark and John and for a client device identified as Device A. Mark for example has been granted access to Sally s Session A Program B and File C . Any user of Device A has been granted access to File C . A user may navigate to the permissions list of GUI from GUI by directing a user input at a PERMISSIONS control element.

GUI includes a files list from the perspective of the user profile for Sally. The files list includes Sally s electronic files stored at the wireless router and electronic files of other users that are accessible to Sally. For example Mark may have granted Sally or a client device operated by Sally access privileges to one or more electronic files. A user may navigate to the files list of GUI from GUI by directing a user input at a FILES control element. These electronic files may include for example image files e.g. .jpg word processing files e.g. .doc .xls etc. instructions set files e.g. .js among other suitable file types. GUI may include an UPLOAD control element to initiate an upload of an electronic file from the client device to the wireless router over the wireless local area network. The uploaded file may be associated with the user profile and or device profile of the source client device by the wireless router. GUI may include other control elements such as SHARE to initiate sharing of electronic files with other users and or client devices via the wireless router SEND to initiate transmission of electronic files to other user profiles and or client devices from or via the wireless router and SYNC to synchronize electronic files across two or more client devices and or user profiles. These control elements may be included with other GUIs including GUI for session states and GUI for programs residing at the wireless router and may be used to initiate sharing transmission or synchronization of these information resources between or among client devices and or user profiles via the wireless router.

GUI includes a programs list from the perspective of the user profile for Sally. The programs list includes Sally s programs residing at the wireless router and programs of other users residing at the wireless router that are accessible to Sally. For example Mark may have granted Sally or a client device operated by Sally access privileges to one or more programs. A user may navigate to the programs list of GUI from GUI by directing a user input at a PROGRAMS control element.

The GUIs of may be accessed by users via a general purpose or special purpose application program executed at their respective client devices. A special purpose program may be dedicated to controlling and managing the wireless router. A general purpose or multi purpose application program may take the form of a web browser or file browser for example. As one example these GUIs may be presented in a webpage viewing region of a browser or in a menu system of the browser. As another example the GUIs of may be presented in a menu system or task bar of an operating system of a client device.

The example GUIs of may be accessed by users in a number of ways such as the through one or more of the previously described APIs. As one example a user may navigate a client device to a well known URI or capture DNS. As another example a user may enter a URL or URI e.g. such as a malformed but easy to remember URI in a browser address bar e.g. such as ROUTER or SHARE . The wireless router may be configured to intercept the DNS query and interpret the query as a SHARE command. In response to the SHARE command the wireless router may be configured to serve a profile interface e.g. one or more of the GUIs of back to the client device that enables the user to share information with another user and or client device of the LAN.

In at least some implementations the wireless router may be configured to listen for commands and serve GUIs in response to requests e.g. the SHARE command from a client device. For example the wireless router may provide a number of functions such as SHARE SETTINGS PICKUP SESSION etc. Each function may cause the wireless router to return a different functional interface to a client device to be displayed to a user.

In at least some implementations the wireless router may be configured to transmit data to a client device representing one or more of the registration interface login interface profile interface etc. responsive to receiving a request at a secret address e.g. URL or URI of the wireless router that was initiated by the client device. For example a secret URL may take the form of or may be based on a shared secret between the wireless router and a client device. A secret address may be programmatically generated by the wireless router or by an application operating on the client device and or the secret address may be at least partially user defined. A secret address may be changed over time e.g. periodically or responsive to a condition to increase security. The wireless router may support one or more secret addresses per device profile and or one or more secret addresses per user profile. Two or more secret addresses for a given client device may be used to distinguish between two or more different types of functional interfaces that provide access to router different functionality.

The access control techniques and functional interfaces described herein may be used to enable a user to define and adjust quality of service parameters applied at the wireless router for a user profile representing a user and or device profile representing a client device . As one example a user profile and or a device profile may be assigned a maximum bandwidth threshold e.g. maximum data rate and or a minimum bandwidth threshold e.g. minimum data rate for accessing resources of the WAN via the wireless router over the LAN. Quality of service parameters may be defined and controlled on a per user profile basis and or a per device profile basis. Accordingly users and or client devices may communicate with the wireless router and or WAN resources via the wireless router at different data rates based at least in part on the quality of service parameters assigned to those users and or client devices. In at least some implementations a user profile may take the form of an administrative user profile that has the ability to define and adjust quality of service parameters that are applied to other user profiles and or device profiles by the wireless router. The wireless router may be configured to apply quality of service parameters by throttling bandwidth of at least some users and or client devices so that communications do not exceed a maximum bandwidth threshold and or so that a minimum bandwidth threshold is guaranteed for other users and or client devices.

The access control techniques and functional interfaces described herein may be used with features described in greater detail in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 309 505 titled GATEWAY ROUTER SUPPORTING SESSION HAND OFF AND CONTENT SHARING AMONG CLIENTS OF A LOCAL AREA NETWORK filed Dec. 1 2011 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 367 556 titled APPLICATION PROGRAMMING INTERFACE FOR ENHANCED WIRELESS LOCAL AREA NETWORK ROUTER filed Feb. 7 2012 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

A smart router may be configured to store the historical router device communications data such as depicted in in a database in the router mass storage or in a location accessible by the router via the LAN or WAN such as at the smart router service depicted in . The router device connection statistics are continually updated based on each new communication session between a particular device and the router. Since this data typically is stored at the router the client device typically does not have access to it. Rather the smart router stores the router device pair connection history data and based on that data can adjust its own communications protocol parameters accordingly. Many of the settings that would be adjusted retransmit MSS and congestion control window are TCP settings and could be programmatically set in TCP or TCP .

As shown in the smart router itself may include a WAN side network protocol stack and a LAN side network protocol stack each of which may include optimized protocol modules configured to enable optimized communications between client devices on the LAN and remote servers over the WAN via the smart router. illustrates that a client session agent is assigned to each client session between client devices and the smart router and a server session agent is assigned to each server session between the smart router and a remote server over the WAN. The client session agent instantiates an instance of the LAN side protocol stack. The LAN side protocol stack in turn modifies various aspects of the LAN side traffic between the client device and smart router to achieve the various functionalities described herein before passing the traffic stream on to an instance of the WAN side protocol stack which has been instantiated by a corresponding server session agent. The server session agent and WAN side protocol stack are tasked with managing connections between a corresponding server on the WAN and the smart router. In the illustrated example the transport layer of the client side network protocol stack instance performs TCP UDP protocol translation explained in more detail below and also receives performance data such as signal strength information for the antenna on the smart router and adjusts the TCP settings based on the signal strength as discussed in detail below. The application layer of the client side protocol stack instance performs translation from SPDY on the WAN side to SPDY explained below as one example so that communications between the smart router and the client at the application layer are performed according to the SPDY protocol. Other application layer protocol translation schemes may also be implemented.

In some cases the server may be a server system such as a data center which includes a network appliance such as a server load balancer or application delivery controller positioned logically in front one or more back end servers. Thus it will be appreciated that the servers themselves or the network appliances may be configured to communicate in specialized protocols such as described below and the server side session agent and WAN side network protocol stack instance may be able to process responses from the server and forward them back to the requesting client device via the LAN side network protocol stack. To enable the smart router to understand which protocols the server or network appliance communicate with the smart router may download a server profile which contains data indicating any applicable server specific protocols.

The smart router may be in communication with a smart router service executed on a server connected to a smart router client executed on the smart router via the WAN. The smart router client may upload user profile data so that users of the smart router may access and their user profile data from a cloud based management portal. In this manner an admin of the smart router may easily edit user privileges assign users to groups etc. Further the router settings themselves may be uploaded for cloud based access and thus a copy of the smart router settings may be uploaded to the smart router service and made accessible to an authorized user via a computing device over the WAN for example. Finally various protocol updates may be downloaded from the smart router service to the smart router client to implement security updates performance improvements etc.

It should be understood that the embodiments herein are illustrative and not restrictive since the scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims rather than by the description preceding them. All changes that fall within metes and bounds of the claims or equivalence of such metes and bounds thereof are therefore intended to be embraced by the claims.

