---

title: Single crystal micromechanical resonator
abstract: A single crystal micromechanical resonator includes a suspended plate of lithium niobate or lithium tantalate. The suspended plate and a support structure are formed from a single crystal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09641154&OS=09641154&RS=09641154
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09641154
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20161111
---
This application is a divisional of prior U.S. application Ser. No. 14 288 236 filed May 27 2014 entitled SINGLE CRYSTAL MICROMECHANICAL RESONATOR AND FABRICATION METHODS THEREOF which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to a single crystal micromechanical resonator and microfabrication methods thereof. In particular the resonator is formed by ion implantation of a lithium niobate or lithium tantalate single crystal.

Micromechanical resonators or microresonators are miniature acoustic resonators fabricated using integrated circuit microfabrication techniques. Such microresonators have various uses such as filters and oscillators. In particular the resonant frequency can be defined photolithographically thereby allowing numerous filters spanning from several hundred MHz to several GHz to be realized on a single chip.

Currently band select filters in cellular handsets are realized using a combination of many dies containing bulk BAW or surface SAW acoustic wave resonators. The resonant frequency for these BAW resonators is determined generally by the thickness of a deposited thin film and requires a separate film thickness for each filter frequency. This makes integration of multiple frequency filters on a single die both challenging and costly. While in theory SAW resonators can support a wide range of frequencies on a single chip in practice the thickness of the metal interdigitated electrodes used to transduce a SAW resonator is varied with frequency thereby limiting the range of filter bands that can be covered on a single chip.

By basing the resonance on a laterally propagating Lamb wave in a suspended plate with a thickness less than an acoustic wavelength a wide range of filter frequencies can be achieved on a single wafer by altering the CAD layout of the devices. Piezoelectric Lamb wave resonators formed in deposited thin films of aluminum nitride zinc oxide and lead zirconate titanate while having much higher coupling coefficients than electrostatically transduced microresonators still do not have a high enough coupling coefficient for many of the band select filters in wireless handsets. Thus there is a need for improved microresonators having sufficiently high coupling coefficients and CAD definable frequencies as well as new methods for fabricating such microresonators on a single chip.

Accordingly the present invention relates to a Lamb wave microresonator having a resonant frequency defined by the plate width W which is a photolithographically definable dimension of the device. The present invention also provides other lithographically definable resonator and electrode dimensions e.g. any dimension described herein such as resonator plate thickness t or electrode aperture a that can be optimized to provide desired device characteristics.

In particular embodiments the microresonator of the invention has numerous improved characteristics such as a high coupling coefficient k a high quality factor Q and a high resonator figure of merit FOM. Such characteristics can be improved e.g. by matching the crystal orientation with the type of plate acoustic wave e.g. SH0 or S0 having the highest electromechanical coupling coefficient Kor kfor that orientation by controlling the electrode spacing or aperture a by arraying numerous resonators in parallel as well as any other design considerations described herein.

Also described herein are methods of fabricating such microresonators in a single crystal in crystallographic class 3m e.g. lithium niobate or lithium tantalate . The method includes forming a damaged layer beneath the top surface of the crystal providing at least one trench to access that damaged layer and then removing the damaged layer with an etchant. In this manner the resonating portion the support structure and the anchoring regions configured to suspend the resonating portion are formed within the same single crystal. In particular the methods of the invention do not require costly wafer bonding polishing or fracturing processes.

In a first aspect the invention features a method for fabricating a micromechanical resonator the method including i providing a single 3m crystal e.g. lithium niobate or lithium tantalate ii treating an exposed area of the single crystal with ions thereby creating an ion damaged region below the top surface of the crystal iii providing at least one trench that defines a first dimension of the resonator and iv removing the ion damaged layer with an etchant. In some embodiments the method thereby releases at least a resonating portion of the resonator from the crystal.

In some embodiments the method includes before step ii patterning a top surface of the crystal with a mask thereby defining the exposed area. In other embodiments the mask includes a plurality of exposed areas. In further embodiments each exposed area defines a resonating portion of a resonator thereby providing a plurality of micromechanical resonators on a single die. In yet other embodiments two or more of the plurality of micromechanical resonators are the same or different.

In some embodiments the method includes before step iv depositing a protective layer on the first dimension of the resonator. In further embodiments the method includes stripping the protective layer e.g. after step iv .

In other embodiments the method includes after step i depositing a metal layer on a top surface of the crystal where the mask is then patterned on top of the metal layer. In further embodiments the method includes patterning the metal layer with one or more electrodes.

In some embodiments the method includes after step iv annealing the resonator e.g. thereby healing the ion damaged layer .

In some embodiments the crystal is an X cut lithium niobate crystal a Y cut lithium niobate crystal a Z cut lithium niobate crystal a rotated cut lithium niobate crystal an X cut lithium tantalate crystal a Y cut lithium tantalate crystal a Z cut lithium tantalate crystal or a rotated cut lithium tantalate crystal e.g. a rotated X Y or Z cut crystal where the rotation can be of any useful angle such as 136 .

In other embodiments the resonator is a shear mode Lamb wave resonator or a symmetric mode Lamb wave resonator.

In a second aspect the invention features a single crystal micromechanical resonator including a resonating portion that includes a single X cut or Y cut crystal of lithium niobate or lithium tantalate a support structure disposed below the resonating portion where the resonating portion and the support structure are composed of the same single X cut or Y cut crystal and a plurality of anchoring regions configured to suspend the resonating portion within the support structure where a trench is disposed below and or around the resonating portion.

In some embodiments the plurality of anchoring regions resonating portion and the support structure are composed of the same single X cut or Y cut crystal.

In other embodiments the resonator further includes a plurality of electrodes disposed on a surface of the resonating portion. In yet other embodiments the resonating portion includes a suspended plate.

In a third aspect the invention features a die including a plurality of single crystal micromechanical resonators e.g. any described herein . In some embodiments two or more resonators are the same or different.

In a fourth aspect the invention features a band select filter array including a plurality of single crystal micromechanical resonators e.g. any described herein . In some embodiments two or more resonators are the same or different.

As used herein the term about means 10 of any recited value. As used herein this term modifies any recited value range of values or endpoints of one or more ranges.

By micro is meant having at least one dimension that is less than 1 mm. For instance a microresonator can have a length width height cross sectional dimension circumference radius e.g. external or internal radius or diameter that is less than 1 mm.

As used herein the terms top bottom upper lower above and below are used to provide a relative relationship between structures. The use of these terms does not indicate or require that a particular structure must be located at a particular location in the apparatus.

Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following description and the claims.

The present invention relates to a micromechanical resonator or microresonator having a high coupling coefficient k. In particular the resonator includes a resonating portion one or more electrodes disposed on at least one surface of the resonating portion and a support structure disposed below the resonating portion. In further embodiments the resonating portion includes one or more anchoring regions which suspend the resonating portion within the support structure. In yet other embodiments the suspended resonating portion is surrounded by a trench which separates the resonating portion and the support structure. Additional details of all these components are described herein.

The resonating portion can be suspended. For example the microresonator includes a trench which is located between the bottom surface of the resonating portion and a surface of the support structure . As seen in the trench is disposed below and around the resonating portion . In this manner the trench acoustically isolates the suspended resonating portion from the support structure . Additional isolation trenches can be included in the support structure.

The resonating portion generally includes a single crystal of a piezoelectric material having any useful crystallographic cut e.g. any described herein . The dimension s of the resonating portion can be selected to optimize the coupling coefficient k the resonant frequency f and or the quality factor Q. Exemplary dimensions include plate thickness t width W and length L . For instance to promote particular modes within the resonator e.g. the SH0 or S0 mode the thickness to wavelength ratio t can be about 0.05. The width W can be designed to for a particular wavelength e.g. 2 W for a Lamb wave resonator or for a particular resonant frequency f c 2 W where c is the relevant sound velocity.

The anchoring region s connect the resonating portion to the support structure. In addition the anchoring regions can be designed to suspend and isolate the resonating region. For instance the microresonator can include thin tapered anchoring regions that suspend the resonating portion above a trench that is located within the substrate or support structure. Exemplary structures for anchoring regions are described in U.S. Pat. No. 8 669 823 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In another instance the resonating region can be a rectangular region having four corners and an anchoring region can be located on each of the corners to connect and suspend the resonating region above a trench see e.g. Gong S et al. Design and analysis of lithium niobate based high electromechanical coupling RF MEMS resonators for wideband filtering 2013 January 61 1 403 14 . Other design and material considerations can be incorporated into the geometry of the anchoring region in order to promote acoustic and or thermal isolation.

One or more electrodes can be used to drive and or sense the acoustic waves in the piezoelectric crystal. The electrode s can have any useful dimension and or orientation. For instance the electrode can have any useful electrode width e e.g. about 5 m gap g between two electrodes e.g. about 5 m aperture a e.g. from about 20 m to about 200 m and space s e.g. from about 20 m to about 200 m . The electrode can be placed at any useful location of the resonating portion such as on the top surface and or at or near the edge of the resonating portion. Additional electrodes can be included e.g. one or more ground electrodes opposite polarity electrodes or floating electrodes on one or more surfaces of the resonating portion e.g. the top and or bottom surfaces and or the anchoring region s .

The electrode can be electrically connected e.g. by wiring to one or more bond pads e.g. contact pads and or ground pads to provide electrical input and output connections for the microresonator. Exemplary electrodes include an interdigitated transducer a grating electrode a thin film electrode and or a floating electrode having any useful thickness period material or geometric arrangement and formed by any useful process such as sputtering vacuum deposition or ion plating. Exemplary electrodes are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 8 497 747 and 8 522 411 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Non limiting materials for electrodes include aluminum Al titanium Ti gold Au copper Cu tungsten W molybdenum Mo platinum Pt ruthenium Ru tantalum Ta chromium Cr osmium Os rhenium Re iridium Ir as well as alloys doped forms and multilayers thereof e.g. TiW AlCu or TiW Cu layers . Arrays of n electrodes or n pairs of electrodes e.g. n is 2 4 5 10 15 20 24 etc. can also be incorporated with the microresonator of the invention. In particular embodiments the electrode includes a lower resistive material to improve the quality factor and or to operate at higher frequencies e.g. any lower resistive material described herein such as gold silver copper aluminum as well as doped forms thereof .

The present method can be used to form any useful resonator. Exemplary resonators includes a Lamb wave resonator having a plate resonating portion a thickness mode acoustic wave resonator having longitudinal elastic waves traveling though the solid material a contour mode resonator having a suspended resonating portion as well as thickness field excitation and lateral field excitation resonators thereof. In addition the resonator can be optimized to promote symmetric modes asymmetric modes and or shear modes of the acoustic wave propagating in the piezoelectric crystal. Spurious modes can be reduced by any useful method such as by rotating bond contact pads.

Additional microresonators e.g. length extensional resonators contour mode resonators thickness mode resonators ring resonators and bar resonators and anchoring region designs are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 652 547 8 367 305 and 8 669 823 Wang R et al. Thin film lithium niobate contour mode resonators 2012 . held on 7 10 Oct. 2012 in Dresden Germany pp. 303 6 and Kadota M et al. High frequency Lamb wave device composed of MEMS structure using LiNbOthin film and air gap 2010 November 57 11 2564 71 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention includes microresonators and methods that employ a piezoelectric crystal. In particular embodiments the crystal is of crystallographic class 3m such as lithium niobate or lithium tantalate.

Single crystals are available as plate cuts along a particular crystallographic axis or axes. Fundamental acoustic waves propagate differently through different plate cuts. For instance in an X cut lithium niobate plate shear SH0 waves with a propagation direction that is 170 from they axis have a coupling coefficient Kof about 38. In contrast for that same X cut plate and propagation direction asymmetric A waves have a coupling coefficient Kof about 0.8. In another instance in a Y cut lithium niobate plate SH0 waves with a propagation direction that is 0 from the x axis have a coupling coefficient Kof about 35. In contrast for that same Y cut plate and propagation direction A waves have a coupling coefficient Kof about 4. Accordingly the particular cut of a single crystal as well as the propagation direction e.g. as controlled by the geometry and arrangement of the driving electrodes provide microresonators having different modes and coupling coefficients.

Exemplary cuts include X cut Y cut and Z cut plates as well as rotated cuts. Within these cuts the acoustic wave propagates at a particular angle from an axis. For example provides a schematic of an X cut single crystal having wave propagation directions relative to the z axis or they axis. Based on the location and arrangement of the electrodes the propagation direction of the acoustic wave can be controlled.

The present invention includes methods for fabricating a single crystal microresonator. In particular the method relies on ion implantation to fracture a sub surface portion of the single crystal and on subsequent use of an etchant to remove that sub surface portion. In this way one dimension of the isolated resonating portion i.e. thickness t can be determined lithographically. This method allows other dimensions of the resonating portion e.g. W and L dimensions and electrodes e.g. a g and e dimensions to be determined lithographically. As described herein these dimensions contribute to various physical characteristics of the microresonator such as f k Q and FOM. The ability to control these physical characteristics using lithography provides numerous benefits such as the ability to form multiple frequency filters on a single die. Additional details are described herein.

Then the substrate is exposed to an ion source to provide an ion damaged region below the top surface of the crystal. The ion source can be of any useful type e.g. helium e.g. He hydrogen krypton xenon magnesium fluorine oxygen e.g. O copper or gold energy e.g. of from about 0.5 MeV to about 100 MeV and fluence e.g. of from about 10to about 10ions cmor ions cm provided in one or more steps to obtain the appropriate penetration depth which determines the thickness t of the resonating portion. In some embodiments the conditions provide a resonating portion having t of from about 0.2 m to about 2 m e.g. about 0.5 m 1.0 m or 1.5 m .

Next one or more trenches are provided to define one or more dimensions of the resonator. For the microresonator in the distance between the two trenches determines the width W of the resonating portion and the length of the trench determines the length L of the resonating portion. The trenches can be provided using any useful technique such as by patterning the top surface of the substrate with a mask e.g. an oxide hard mask defining the trench es etching e.g. dry etching with any useful ion such as chlorine the substrate and then removing the mask. The distance geometry arrangement number and dimensions of the trenches can be modified to obtain the desired dimensions for the resonating portion of the microresonator s . In addition etching conditions can be optimized to ensure that the trenches provide access to the ion damaged region below the surface of the crystal and or to provide vertical sidewalls for the resonating portion.

Finally the ion damaged region is removed using an etchant e.g. a wet etchant providing a third trench disposed beneath the resonating portion and thereby releasing the resonating portion here a suspended plate from the support structure. Any useful etchant can be employed to remove the damaged region. Exemplary etchants include a wet chemical etchant such as HF and mixtures thereof e.g. HNOand HF mixtures optionally including ethanol .

The method can include any number of other useful steps. provides an exemplary method of fabricating a microresonator having a pair of electrodes as described below. The details of are described in Example 1 herein.

First as seen in a metal layer is deposited on a substrate e.g. a single crystal by any useful manner e.g. evaporation deposition etc. . Optionally one or more alignment marks are included in the metal layer . This metal layer can include one or more metals metal alloys or metal layers useful for making an electrode e.g. any metal described herein .

Next the top surface of the substrate having the metal layer is optionally patterned with a mask to define the exposed area . The substrate is exposed to an ion source to provide an ion damaged region below the top surface of the crystal. Next one or more trenches are provided to define one or more dimensions of the resonator.

Then the metal layer is patterned to provide one or more electrodes. For instance electrodes can then be patterned on the previously deposited metal layer . This step can include any useful lithographic and microfabrication technique such as any described herein. In addition the electrode pattern can include one or more useful dimensions such as aperture a gap g space s electrode width e or any other dimension described herein. The electrode pattern can include an array of n electrodes or n pairs of electrodes e.g. as described herein .

Optionally a protective layer can be deposited to protect a surface of the resonator prior to exposure to an etchant e.g. a wet etchant . As described herein particular crystallographic faces can have different etch rates. In particular the z face of lithium niobate crystal etches at a higher rate using an HF etchant as compared to the other faces. Thus when the z face is exposed then a protective layer e.g. a gold layer can be deposited to protect this face.

Finally the ion damaged region is removed using an etchant e.g. HF or any etchant herein providing a third trench disposed beneath that resonating portion and thereby releasing the resonating portion from the support structure. If the protective layer is used then the subsequent step can include a stripping step to strip the protective layer.

The microresonators and methods of the present invention can be applied for any beneficial use. Exemplary uses include one or more resonators to form a band select filter e.g. for use in wireless handsets a filter bank an oscillator a sensor and arrays thereof. For use in an array e.g. including a plurality of resonators in parallel each resonator can be electrically interconnected e.g. by way of wires bias lines etc. to provide a composite resonator. The array can also include a substrate and a plurality of networks formed on the substrate where each network is electrically connected in parallel. The array can include at least one input configured to receive an electrical signal and relay this signal to the lattice networks as well as at least one output to provide a filtered electrical signal. Each network can include at least one microresonator e.g. any microresonator described herein where each microresonator can optionally have a different resonant frequency or physical dimension . Additional arrays and uses are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 385 334 and 8 497 747 Aigner R MEMS in RF filter applications thin film bulk acoustic wave technology 2003 February 12 1 175 210 Malocha D C SAW BAW acoustoelectronic technology for filters and communication systems 2010 11 . held on 12 13 Apr. 2010 in Melbourne Fla. pp. 1 7 and Yantchev V et al. Thin film Lamb wave resonators in frequency control and sensing applications a review 2013 23 043001 14 pp. each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Described herein is a high coupling coefficient kmicromechanical resonator based on the propagation of SH0 Lamb waves in thin suspended plates of single crystal X cut lithium niobate LiNbO . The thin plates were fabricated without the cumbersome wafer bonding layer fracturing and chemical mechanical polishing in previously reported LiNbOmicrofabrication approaches. The highest coupling coefficient was found for resonators with acoustic propagation rotated 80 from the z axis 170 from they axis where a fundamental mode SH0 Lamb wave resonator propagating in a 1.2 m thick plate with a plate width of 20 m and a corresponding resonant frequency of 101 MHz achieved a coupling coefficient k 12.4 a quality factor Q 1300 and a resonator figure of merit FOM 185. The kand FOM are among the highest reported for micromechanical resonators. Additional details follow.

Microresonators are miniature acoustic resonators fabricated using integrated circuit IC microfabrication techniques. Recently microresonators have become of great interest because the CAD definable resonant frequency allows many filters spanning from several hundred MHz to several GHz to be realized on a single chip Piazza G et al. Piezoelectric aluminum nitride thin films for microelectromechanical systems 2012 November 37 11 1051 61 and Nguyen CTC MEMS technology for timing and frequency control 2007 February 54 2 251 70 . This is especially important for next generation cellular handsets where the growing number of frequency bands each typically require a discrete filter die. Microresonator technology provides a potential path for integrating many band select filters on a single die thus reducing the size cost and complexity of next generation wireless handsets.

Currently band select filters in cellular handset are realized using a combination of many dies containing bulk BAW or surface SAW acoustic wave resonators see e.g. Aigner R SAW and BAW technologies for RF filter applications A review of the relative strengths and weaknesses 2008 . held 2 5 Nov. 2008 in Beijing China pp. 582 9 Lakin K M A review of thin film resonator technology 2003 December 4 4 61 7 Ruby R et al. PCS 1900 MHz duplexer using thin film bulk acoustic resonators FBARs 1999 May 35 10 794 5 Campbell C K Applications of surface acoustic and shallow bulk acoustic wave devices 1989 October 77 10 1453 84 and Kadota M Development of substrate structures and processes for practical applications of various surface acoustic wave devices 2005 June 44 6B 4285 91 .

Aluminum nitride AlN based BAW resonators and SAW resonators formed in lithium niobate LiNbO or lithium tantalate LiTaO have the high coupling coefficients krequired to achieve the required band select filter bandwidths of 3 of the filter center frequency and the quality factors required for steep filter roll off all while maintaining low filter insertion loss. AlN BAW resonators operate based on the thickness of a deposited thin film and require a separate film thickness for each filter frequency. This makes integration of multiple frequency filters on a single die both challenging and costly. While in theory SAW resonators can support a wide range of frequencies on a single chip in practice the thickness of the metal interdigitated electrodes used to transduce SAW resonator is varied with frequency Kadota M 2005 June 44 6B 4285 91 limiting the range of filter bands that can be covered on a single chip. Furthermore the low SAW phase velocity limits the application of SAW technology in emerging high frequency bands above 2.5 GHz Aigner R 2008 2 5 Nov. 2008 in Beijing China pp. 582 9 .

Recently both piezoelectric and electrostatically transduced microresonators have been the subject of research see e.g. Piazza G et al. 2012 November 37 11 1051 6 Kim B et al AlN microresonator based filters with multiple bandwidths at low intermediate frequencies 2013 August 22 4 949 61 Lin C M et al. Temperature compensated aluminum nitride Lamb wave resonators 2010 March 57 3 524 32 Piazza G et al. Single chip multiple frequency AlN MEMS filters based on contour mode piezoelectric resonators 2007 April 16 2 319 28 Abdolvand R et al. Thin film piezoelectric on silicon resonators for high frequency reference oscillator applications 2008 December 55 12 2596 606 Pulskamp J S et al. Piezoelectric PZT MEMS technologies for small scale robotics and RF applications 2012 November 37 11 1062 70 Nguyen CTC 2007 February 54 2 251 70 Casinovi G et al. Lamb waves and resonant modes in rectangular bar silicon resonators 2010 August 19 4 827 39 and Weinstein D et al. Internal dielectric transduction in bulk mode resonators 2009 December 18 6 1401 8 . By establishing the resonance on a laterally propagating Lamb wave in a suspended plate with a thickness less than an acoustic wavelength a wide range of filter frequencies can be achieved on a single wafer by altering the CAD layout of the devices. The kof electrostatically driven resonators at frequencies relevant to cellular communications are orders of magnitude lower than that required for band select filters see e.g. Gong S et al. Design and analysis of lithium niobate based high electromechanical coupling RF MEMS resonators for wideband filtering 2013 January 61 1 403 14 .

Piezoelectric Lamb wave resonators formed in deposited thin films of aluminum nitride AlN zinc oxide ZnO and lead zirconate titanate PZT while having much higher coupling coefficients than electrostatically transduced microresonators still do not have a high enough coupling coefficient for many of the band select filters in wireless handsets.

In 2001 Kuznetsova et al. Investigation of acoustic waves in thin plates of lithium niobate and lithium tantalate 2001 January 48 1 322 8 reported the theoretically large piezoelectric coupling that could be achieved for Lamb resonators in thin films of single crystal LiNbO. The largest coupling reported by Kuznetsova et al. was for the SH0 Lamb mode in X cut LiNbOwith a kof 27.4 . The challenge is in realizing thin suspended membranes of single crystal piezoelectric materials with much higher coupling coefficients than the deposited polycrystalline piezoelectric thin films such as AlN ZnO and PZT.

Recently symmetric S0 Lamb wave microresonators have been reported in suspended thin films of single crystal X cut LiNbOand 136 rotated Y cut LiNbO see e.g. Gong S et al. 2013 January 61 1 403 14 and Wang R et al. High k Q multi frequency lithium niobate resonators 2013 26 held 20 24 Jan. 2013 in Taipei Taiwan pp. 165 8 . Both of the fabrication processes reported in these publications required bonding of a LiNbOdevice wafer to a handle wafer using a glue layer. Thin films of LiNbOdirectly over the glue release layer were then realized either by polishing back the LiNbOdevice wafer to the desired thickness of 1 m or by fracturing the LiNbOdevice wafer just below the wafer surface that was previously ion implanted to induce a damaged fracture plane Wang R et al. 2013 26 held 20 24 Jan. 2013 in Taipei Taiwan pp. 165 8 Gong S et al. 2013 January 61 1 403 14 Moulet J S et al. High piezoelectric properties in LiNbOtransferred layer by the Smart Cut technology for ultra wide band BAW filter applications 2008 held 15 17 Dec. 2008 in San Francisco Calif. pp. 1 4 and Aspar B et al. The generic nature of the Smart Cut process for thin film transfer 2001 July 30 7 834 40 .

In this Example we provide a Lamb wave LiNbOmicroresonator fabricated in a process that does not require costly wafer bonding polishing or fracturing processes see e.g. Yu Y C et al. Crystal ion slicing lithium niobate film performed by 250 keVHe ion implantation 2007 March 256 1 558 60 and Si G et al. Suspended slab and photonic crystal waveguides in lithium niobate 2010 March 28 2 316 20 . The thin plates were fabricated using ion implantation of He to create an ion damaged layer of LiNbOat a desired depth below the wafer surface. This damaged layer was selectively wet etched in hydrofluoric HF acid based chemistry to form thin suspended plates of LiNbO.

Using this fabrication process we observed high coupling coefficient SH0 Lamb wave resonators in X cut LiNbO. The highest coupling coefficient was found for resonators with acoustic propagation rotated 80 from the z axis see which is in agreement with the theory reported in Kuznetsova I E et al. 2001 January 48 1 322 8.

A fundamental mode SH0 Lamb wave resonator propagating in an 1.2 m thick plate with a width of 20 m and a corresponding resonant frequency of 101 MHz achieved a kof 12.4 a quality factor Q of 1300 and a resonator figure of merit FOM of 185. The kand FOM are among the highest reported for micromechanical resonators.

The LiNbOmicroresonators were fabricated using the process flow shown in . As shown in step a the process began with the evaporation of 100 nm of Cr and the patterning of alignment marks in the Cr on X cut LiNbO.

Next in step b an oxide layer was deposited and patterned to define an area where an ion implant will penetrate the LiNbO thereby creating an ion damaged LiNbOrelease layer at the end of the ion implant range. Patterning where the ion implant penetrates the LiNbOallowed the lateral extents of the device release to be precisely controlled. The sample was then implanted with a He dose of 1 10atoms cmat an energy of 0.8 MeV to create an ion damaged release layer of LiNbO approximately 1.8 m below the wafer surface. The implants were performed in a 3 MV NEC Pelletron using a current of 

Then in step c trenches that define the final resonator dimensions and resonant frequency were etched in the LiNbO thereby exposing the ion damaged LiNbOrelease layer. The LiNbOwas dry etched at 15 C. using an Ar BCl Clgas mixture at 10 mT on a PlasmaTherm Versaline 4 in. ICP system using a newly optimized process. This process was capable of producing sidewalls with 80 sidewall angle and etch depths 2 m.

Next in step d the Cr electrodes were patterned. Optionally as shown in step e a 1 m Au layer was deposited and patterned to protect the z face of the LiNbOduring the release. We measured the etch rates in the wet hydrofluoric acid release chemistry for the ion damaged LiNbOand for the different crystal faces of LiNbO Table 1 .

Additional studies of etching LiNbOin aqueous HF can be in found in e.g. Randles A B et al. Etch rate dependence on crystal orientation of lithium niobate 2010 November 57 11 2372 80 and Reinisch J et al. Etching of ion irradiated LiNbOin aqueous hydrofluoric solutions 2008 February 155 4 D298 D301. While the etch rates of the z y and x crystal faces were much lower than the ion damaged LiNbO the etch rate of the z face was only four times lower than that of the ion damaged LiNbO.

Since the highest kmicroresonators rotated 80 from the z axis have a slight z face component for one of the resonator sidewalls this Au layer can be used to protect the z face and more accurately control the final dimensions of the microresonator. In step f the device was released using a wet hydrofluoric acid chemistry to remove the ion damaged layer of LiNbO thereby forming a trench . The devices were annealed at 300 C. to heal the implant damage in the device layer and flatten the devices. Finally if utilized the Au layer used to protect the z face of the microresonator sidewall can be stripped in a mixture of potassium iodide and iodine KI I. Also shown is the stress field of the acoustic standing wave .

A scanning electron micrograph SEM image of a LiNbOmicroresonator with acoustic propagation rotated 80 from the z axis is shown in . The designed microresonator dimensions are for a width W 20 m length L 140 m and an aperture electrode overlap a 50 m. The width of each Cr electrode e 5 m and the gap between electrodes g 5 m. The acoustic wave propagated in the width extensional direction i.e. in the direction of W.

A zoomed in image of a suspended LiNbOmicroresonator is shown in and an optical image of a LiNbOmicroresonator with acoustic propagation rotated 80 from the z axis is shown in . Addition SEM images of the underside of the LiNbOresonators revealed a smooth surface and a final plate thickness of approximately 1.2 m.

In a microresonator the acoustic energy is reflected off of an etched sidewall. In order for the microresonator width W to be nearly identical through the resonator thickness the etched sidewall angle must be as steep as possible. A significant sidewall angle can both lower the resonator quality factor and introduce spurious responses. Shown in is a cross section image after chlorine dry etching of 1.32 m of X Cut LiNbOrotated 80 from the z axis using an oxide hard mask. The sidewall angle is in excess of 84 and is vertical enough to ensure high device quality factors.

Lithium Niobate Microresonator Modeling The SH0 mode microresonators with acoustic propagation rotated 80 from the z axis formed in X cut LiNbOwere studied using finite element modeling FEM in ANSYS. For the simulations the material constants shown in Table 2 were used Kovacs G et al. Improved material constants for LiNbOand LiTaO1990 . held 4 7 Dec. 1990 in Honolulu Hi. vol. 1 pp. 435 8 and are slightly different from those reported in Gong S et al. 2013 January 61 1 403 14.

A Young s modulus density and Poisson ratio of 279 GPa 7190 kg m and 0.21 were used to model the Cr electrodes. The devices modeled all had the dimensions given in with a plate width W 20 m total length L 140 m and an aperture a 50 m. All devices modeled had a thickness t 1.2 m giving a thickness to wavelength ratio h of 0.03 very close to the optimal value for maximizing kof 0.05 found in Kuznetsova I E et al. 2001 January 48 1 322 8.

The devices were designed to vibrate in the fundamental SH0 mode with the frequency fdefined by the plate width using Eq. 1 

To study the effect of the electrode placement on the resonator coupling coefficient harmonic analysis was utilized. A degraded resonator quality factor of 100 was used in the harmonic simulations to provide a fast simulation time. A 5 m thick layer of vacuum 1 was included above the resonator which is important for accurately predicting the coupling coefficient.

First the gap between the 100 nm thick Cr electrodes was varied from 2.5 m to 10 m while holding the electrode width constant at 5 m with the simulated resonator admittances shown in . As the gap between the electrodes increase the device resonant frequency decreases. This is because the electrodes are moving closer to the resonator anti nodes where mass loading causes the resonant frequency to be reduced.

The resonator coupling coefficient was then extracted from the simulations using the IEEE standard The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc. An American National Standard IEEE Standard on Piezoelectricity IEEE New York N.Y. 1988 p. 51 

As the electrode gap was increased from 2.5 m to 15 m the coupling coefficient increased from 11.4 to 24.9 . This suggests that locating the electrodes near the resonator edges or anti nodes results in the maximum coupling coefficient. A similar result was found for overtone resonators in Wang R et al. 2013 26 held 20 24 Jan. 2013 in Taipei Taiwan pp. 165 8. Despite the lower coupling coefficient the admittance of the resonators at series resonance was seen to increase for narrower electrode spacings because of the higher shunt capacitance and resulting larger transduction force of narrower electrode gaps. This suggests that the resonator coupling coefficient and motional impedance per unit area which will set the final filter size for a given design can be traded off to find an optimal implementation.

A similar analysis of kversus electrode gap was performed for electrode widths of 2.5 m and 7.5 m with the results shown in . The solid lines in represent the results of harmonic analysis simulations performed with the 5 m layer of vacuum surrounding the microresonator device while the dashed lines are the results when no vacuum layer is included in the finite element model. Omitting the vacuum layer over predicted the coupling coefficient. The maximum kwith the vacuum layer was found to be 25.8 this is in good agreement with the theoretical analysis in Kuznetsova L E et al. 2001 January 48 1 322 8.

The optimum design to yield the largest coupling coefficient occurred for an electrode width of 2.5 m and a gap of 15 m. This design however resulted in electrodes that run directly to the edge of the resonator. For ease of fabrication we chose an electrode width and gap of 5 m for our initial experimental studies of SH0 Lamb wave resonators in LiNbOplates.

Measured Results and Discussion An SH0 mode LiNbOmicroresonator rotated 80 to the z axis such as that shown in and was measured in vacuum with the response shown in black in narrow span and wide span . In order to determine the resonator coupling coefficient kand quality factor Q the measured admittance was fit to the modified Butterworth Van Dyke resonator equivalent circuit model shown in using the following Eqs. 5 7 

Excellent agreement between the measured admittance and the electrical equivalent circuit model were found for a motional impedance R 1076 a resonator frequency f 100.965 MHz a quality factor Q 1300 and a coupling coefficient k 17.5 . These parameters yielded a motional capacitance C 1.13 fF a motional inductance L 2.21 H and an electrical shunt capacitance C 7.94 fF. A coupling coefficient k 12.4 was found for the resonator by using Eq. 3 and fand ffrom the equivalent circuit model in . The measured quality factor in air was slightly lower 1200 than that measured in vacuum. The measured resonator figure of merit FOM was defined by the IEEE standard The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc. An American National Standard IEEE Standard on Piezoelectricity IEEE New York N.Y. 1988 p. 51 

Numerous spurious resonances with a frequency spacing of approximately 4.8 MHz were seen in the wideband microresonator response . These resonances arose from overtone resonances transduced by the bond pads. Also shown is the measured response between two bond pads rotated 170 to they axis gray line . These bond pads have a membrane without electrodes placed between the pads to mimic the pad feed through of the microresonator device as closely as possible. The frequencies of the numerous spurious resonances between the bond pads corresponded directly to the spurious modes seen for the microresonator device in . We note here that rotating the bond pads to angles with low coupling can eliminate these resonant modes by preventing their transduction. We also note that no extraction of bond pad or any other parasitics were performed in this work.

Resonant frequency was measured as a function of temperature. The SH0 Lamb wave LiNbOresonator shown in was measured from 40 C. to 100 C. in 20 C. increments . From these data a linear temperature coefficient of frequency of 73 parts per million per C. ppm C. was determined for the LiNbOmicroresonators with the highest kwith acoustic propagation 80 from the z axis.

Also shown in is the predicted admittance from an ANSYS finite element harmonic analysis for the SH0 Lamb wave resonator shown in . In the analysis the resonator quality factor was set to the measured value of 1300. A 5 m thick layer of vacuum was included above the resonator in the finite element analysis to account for any reduction in k. The finite element model is in good general agreement with the measured LiNbOmicroresonator response. The measured resonant frequency was slightly higher than that predicted by FEM. This can be attributed to a slightly narrower plate width because the device reported in did not include the Au protection layer to prevent etching of the z LiNbOcrystal face during release. While the measured kof 12.4 is lower than the kof 17.3 predicted by fitting the equivalent circuit in to the output of the finite element model it is still among the largest values reported for a Lamb wave resonator.

Samples with acoustic propagation 60 70 80 and 90 from the z axis were fabricated using the fabrication process described in with the z face Au protection layer as shown in . The measured admittances in air for these samples are shown in . Each measurement was fit to the electrical equivalent circuit model in as described above in order to determine the kof each sample.

The highest kof 10.9 was found for the 80 sample with measured kvalues of 10.1 8.7 and 6.6 for the 90 70 and 60 rotated samples respectively. The trend of kversus acoustic propagation direction is in agreement with our own finite element modeling and the theoretical analysis in Kuznetsova I E et al. 2001 January 48 1 322 8.

The Q and ksource for the sample with Au z face protection were not as high as the sample reported without it. This however was sample specific and is not a result of the z face protection itself. We routinely yielded samples with comparable performance to the device measurement in using the Au z face protection. The sample for comparing kversus acoustic propagation direction was chosen because all four device orientations were relatively spur free allowing direct comparison of the kon a single sample.

The measured resonant frequency of 92.5 MHz for the 80 rotated sample yielded an acoustic velocity for the SH0 Lamb wave with 100 nm Cr electrodes of 3700 m s. The measured resonant frequencies 92.48 MHz 80 rotated sample with z face protection and 100.965 MHz without z face protection predict a final plate width of 18.32 m for the 80 rotated samples released without z face protection. The characteristics of all the samples studied in this work are summarized in Table 3.

In conclusion we have presented high coupling coefficient SH0 Lamb wave microresonators realized in thin plates of X cut LiNbO. The present fabrication process eliminated the challenging wafer bonding polishing and splitting steps required to realize the S0 Lamb wave LiNbOdevices presented in previous works. The highest coupling coefficient was found for resonators with acoustic propagation rotated 80 from the z axis which is in agreement with the theory reported in Kuznetsova I E et al. 2001 January 48 1 322 8.

In order to apply this promising technology to RF filtering applications the device resonant frequency can be scaled to between 700 MHz and 2.4 GHz to cover the most widely utilized commercial RF bands. To reach frequencies as high as 2.4 GHz while maintaining a thickness to wavelength ratio 

In addition to scaling the resonant frequency to realize 50 matched band select filters the resonator motional impedance must be scaled to on order of 1 . Fortunately when scaling to higher frequencies the motional impedance per unit area will decrease by 1 fsource assuming the kand Q values remain constant. Any additional scaling of the impedance can be achieved by increasing the electrode overlap a arraying resonators in parallel or increasing the number of electrode fingers. Because both the width of the electrode fingers and the resonator motional impedance will be decreasing with increasing device resonant frequency replacing the Cr electrodes with a lower resistivity metal e.g. any described herein will be important to prevent degrading the device Q with the series resistance of the electrodes. With the ability to realize many high kand high Q micromechanical resonators operating at different frequencies on a single chip single chip filtering solutions covering many cellular bands will become possible promising to reduce the number of filter chips required in next generation cellular handsets.

Microresonator filter arrays have been studied as a smaller more highly integrated replacement for the numerous filters dies that currently reside in the RF front end of a multi band cellular handset. In particular microresonators realized in thin films of lithium niobate LiNbO have demonstrated the high piezoelectric coupling needed to realize band select filters with percent bandwidths of 2 5 while simultaneously exhibiting the high quality factors required for duplexers with narrow frequency gaps between the transmit and receive bands Gong S et al. 2013 January 61 1 403 14 Wang R et al. 2013 26 held 20 24 Jan. 2013 in Taipei Taiwan pp. 165 8 and Olsson III R H et al. A high electromechanical coupling coefficient SH0 Lamb wave lithium niobate micromechanical resonator and a method for fabrication 2014 March 209 183 9 .

As described herein we studied and compared the properties of Lamb wave resonators vibrating in the fundamental symmetric S0 and shear SH0 modes. These modes were chosen because they are predicted to have both low dispersion and high coupling coefficient over a wide range of thickness to wavelength ratios h . Both of these properties are important for realizing multi frequency band select filters in a single LiNbOlayer.

Fundamental mode bar resonators were realized on a single die for direct comparison. These resonators included a plate width W 20 m a plate thickness t 1.5 m various apertures a i.e. a 50 m 90 m and 130 m and various acoustic wave propagations i.e. rotated 30 S0 and 170 SH0 to the y axis to maximize piezoelectric coupling . The h of 0.04 is very close to the optimum value to maximize piezoelectric coupling of 0.05 found for both the S0 and SH0 modes in Kuznetsova I E et al. 2001 January 48 1 322 8.

We found that while the S0 Lamb wave had a 1.6 times higher sound velocity than the SH0 mode compare 6400 m s for S0 and 3900 m s for SH0 the SH0 mode was predicted to and consistently exhibited a 1.6 1.8 times higher effective piezoelectric coupling coefficient k. The SH0 mode also exhibited higher quality factor Q higher figure of merit FOM and fewer spurious responses.

Finally a fundamental SH0 mode Lamb wave resonator realized in a 4.4 m wide plate was demonstrated with an operating frequency of 350 MHz a k 14.5 Q 2150 in air and a FOM 365 among the highest reported for Lamb wave resonators. Details follow.

Device Fabrication The resonators were fabricated using a process flow similar to that shown in where selective ion irradiation of a LiNbOwafer created a damaged release layer that selectively etches in HF chemistry allowing suspended membranes to be formed. The advantages of this fabrication process include the following 1 the ability to lithographically define the undercut of the device 2 no wafer bonding polishing or fracturing and 3 the ability to realize custom and potentially multiple LiNbOthicknesses on a single substrate.

The process began with an X cut LiNbOwafer upon which a 100 nm layer of Cr was deposited and patterned to form alignment marks. Next a SiOlayer was deposited and patterned to determine where the release layer will be formed via ion irradiation. The sample was then implanted with a He dose of 1 10atoms cmat an energy of 0.9 MeV to create an ion damaged release layer of LiNbOapproximately 2 m below the wafer surface. This energy was found to give a final plate thickness after release of approximately 1.5 m. The implants were performed in a 3 MV NEC Pelletron using a current of 

Next the Cr electrodes were patterned and a layer of Au was deposited and patterned via lift off to protect the z face of the LiNbOdevice which can have a significant etch rate in HF during the release. During our research we found that the structural rigidity of this Au protection layer also led to significantly improved device yield through the release process. Finally the devices were released in a HF based chemistry and the Au protect layer is stripped in KI I.

Device Structure and Dimensions The resonator included a 1.5 m thick suspended membrane of LiNbOwith a width W 20 m. The device was designed to resonate in the fundamental S0 or SH0 mode see with a resonant frequency f c 2 W where c is the sound velocity of the Lamb wave. The thickness to wavelength ratio t 0.04 was close to the optimum value to maximize kof 0.05 Kuznetsova I E et al. 2001 January 48 1 322 8 . The space between the electrodes and device substrate anchor s was 45 m for all devices. While it was found in Wang R et al. 2013 26 held 20 24 Jan. 2013 in Taipei Taiwan pp. 165 8 and Olsson III R H et al. 2014 March 209 183 90 that to maximize kthe electrodes should be placed at the edges of the resonator 5 m wide electrodes with a gap g 5 m were designed slightly offset from the resonator edge for ease of fabrication. Electrode apertures a which define the resonator static capacitance of 50 m 90 m and 130 m were modeled fabricated and characterized.

Finite Element Modeling Results The six devices with three different apertures and two different rotations to the y axis described above were studied using finite element modeling FEM and experimentally. The FEM was a full 3D representation of the device including the anchors and electrodes.

The results of Eqs. 3 and 4 were equal when no spurious resonances are seen near for f. As discussed in this Example however we found in both FEM and in experiments that spurious modes caused a significant increase in fand overestimation of kif Eq. 3 is used. We note here that the piezoelectric coupling coefficient kreported in Gong S et al. 2013 January 61 1 403 14 is equal to Eq. 10 

The simulated kversus aperture is shown in and summarized in Table 4 for both the S0 and SH0 Lamb wave resonators. The S0 Lamb wave resonator was predicted to have a significantly lower kthat is much more sensitive to the aperture than the SH0 Lamb wave resonator.

Experimental Results The admittance of the six different resonators realized on the same die was measured in air using a network analyzer. The responses for the S0 and SH0 mode resonators with an aperture of 90 m are shown in S0 and in SH0 . Also shown in are the results of the FEM for each device simulated with the measured quality factors. Each resonator measurement was fit to the modified Butterworth Van Dyke MBVD equivalent circuit model shown in using Eqs. 11 13 

The simulated MBVD results and experimental measurements were in good agreement far from resonance and close to the series resonance. The experimental kfor each resonator was calculated from the MBVD equivalent circuit model using either Eq. 3 or 4 which yielded identical results since no spurious responses are modeled using the circuit in . From it is apparent that using the measured frequency of maximum admittance in Eq. 3 dramatically overestimated kdue to the spurious modes between fand f.

The measured f R R C k k Q Q and acoustic figure of merit are summarized for all the resonators in Table 4 while the measured kversus aperture is shown in . The SH0 resonators were found to have significantly higher effective piezoelectric coupling coefficient and figure of merit values.

Scaling to Higher Frequencies From Table 4 the resistance of the Cr electrodes was seen to significantly degrade the total resonator quality factor. Higher frequency operation can only result in further degradation in Qas the electrode cross sectional area will decrease causing Rto increase and Rto decrease see Eq. 11 . For this reason when scaling to higher operating frequencies the Cr electrodes were replaced with 100 nm of Au lower resistivity compared to Cr and the Au z face protection mask step was omitted from the fabrication process.

The measured admittance of a SH0 Lamb wave resonator rotated 170 to the y axis with a plate width W 4.4 m an aperture a 60 m an electrode width e 1 m and a gap between the electrodes g 2 m is shown in . Also shown in both figures is the simulated response of the MBVD equivalent circuit. The narrowing of the plate width W to 4.4 m increased the series resonant frequency to 350 MHz. The inclusion of the Au electrodes has reduced the series electrical resistance to the point where it need not be modeled R 0 and Q Q. The increase in the effective electrode aperture to nearly seven wavelengths has enabled a corresponding increase in the device quality factor to 2150. The ultra high frequency UHF band resonator maintained a high effective coupling coefficient k 14.5 and a figure of merit FOM 365. The performance of the UHF fundamental SH0 mode LiNbOmicromechanical resonator is summarized in Table 5.

Conclusion We have studied theoretically and experimentally fundamental mode S0 and SH0 Lamb wave resonators realized in thin plates of LiNbO. The devices were fabricated using a newly developed process that allows the formation of a damaged LiNbOsacrificial layer using helium ion implantation. This damaged LiNbOwas subsequently etched in a HF acid based wet release. The plate width which determines the resonant frequency was 20 m wide for both the S0 and SH0 mode resonators and the thickness to wavelength ratio for both types of resonators was 0.04 near the optimum value to maximize piezoelectric coupling found in Kuznetsova I E et al. 2001 January 48 1 322 8. The acoustic wave propagation was rotated 30 S0 and 170 SH0 to the y axis for the resonators also an optimum condition to maximize piezoelectric coupling.

We found that the SH0 mode microresonators consistently exhibited higher effective piezoelectric coupling quality factor and figure of merit when compared to identically designed S0 mode structures. The properties of the SH0 mode resonators were less sensitive to the device aperture and the SH0 mode resonators exhibited fewer spurious responses. While the initial study was performed on LiNbOmicroresonators operating at 97 MHz SH0 and 160 MHz S0 a SH0 mode microresonator in a 4.4 m wide LiNbOplate were demonstrated at 350 MHz. The k 14.5 Q 2150 and FOM 365 for the 350 MHz microresonator are among the highest demonstrated for this new class of resonant microdevices.

All publications patents and patent applications mentioned in this specification are incorporated herein by reference to the same extent as if each independent publication or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

While the invention has been described in connection with specific embodiments thereof it will be understood that it is capable of further modifications and this application is intended to cover any variations uses or adaptations of the invention following in general the principles of the invention and including such departures from the present disclosure that come within known or customary practice within the art to which the invention pertains and may be applied to the essential features hereinbefore set forth and follows in the scope of the claims.

