---

title: Online logo tool
abstract: An online tool allows a user, such as an online merchant, to access a page of a service provider, select a format, customize funding sources and designs, and copy and paste the code to the merchant page to quickly and easily create a customized funding source graphic.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09588650&OS=09588650&RS=09588650
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09588650
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160914
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 955 005 filed Nov. 30 2015 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 620 865 filed Feb. 12 2015 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 218 433 issued on Dec. 22 2015 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 953 305 filed on Nov. 23 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 977 973 issued on Mar. 10 2015 all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present invention generally relates to webpage creation and more particularly to a tool for customizing logos on a webpage.

Online transactions are becoming more and more prevalent with an ever increasing number of online merchants and online payment mechanisms. The increase is due partly to the ease of making a purchase online instead of physically at a store. An online merchant may offer a user or consumer various options for payment which gives the consumer more flexibility to choose a desired funding source as well as giving the merchant a better chance that one of the offered funding sources will be acceptable by the consumer. Thus typically an online merchant provides the consumer with multiple funding sources.

These funding sources may include different types of credit cards e.g. Visa American Express or MasterCard bank payments or different payment providers such as PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. The funding sources are typically placed on the merchant website so that the consumer can easily identify the available funding sources. Ease of identification is due in part to distinctive looks of the various funding sources.

However because of these different looks a collection of the available funding sources may not be aesthetically pleasing or complement the look of the merchant site.

In addition the merchant may offer its products or services throughout the world with specific products services for specific geographic locations. As a result funding sources may not be the same between different regions. For example a payment source common in Mexico may not be available for use in Germany. Thus the merchant would want to offer that funding source to customers in Mexico but not to customers in Germany.

The above may require the merchant to create specific graphics and or templates to present funding sources that the merchant wants. This can be time consuming tedious and costly. As a result a merchant may decide to forego one or more possible funding sources.

Thus it is desirable to provide a tool for online merchants to quickly and easily create a funding source portion on their web site that overcomes the above disadvantages.

According to one embodiment an online merchant accesses a page of a payment provider customizes funding sources and designs and copies and pastes the code to the merchant page to quickly and easily create a customized funding source graphic.

In one embodiment the merchant first accesses the appropriate page on a payment provider site. The merchant then sees one or more different formats for displaying the payment options. The different formats can be the same for each merchant i.e. standardized formats or the formats can be merchant specific such as the payment provider using a screen scrape or other means to determine the size colors etc. of the merchant site as well as the size location colors etc. of the payment options portion of the merchant site.

The merchant selects the desired format and can then begin to customize the display. Next the merchant is able to see possible funding sources such as in logo format. Desired funding sources can then be selected such as a simple drag and drop into a field or box. The order or placement of the funding sources within the box can also be selected by the merchant. Additional information about the funding sources can be seen such as by moving a mouse over a particular funding source. This additional information may include what countries the funding source is available for use.

Once the desired funding sources are selected the merchant can choose a desired color scheme. This can be done in different ways. For example the merchant can select a desired color palette or color scheme first which shows the selected color palette on the screen. The merchant can then move a mouse or selector within the color palette to select the desired color for the funding source display.

The merchant may preview the display on the merchant site if desired. If so the merchant can enter the website address into a field and submit the address which recreates the merchant webpage but with the payment option display on the webpage. The merchant can then drag the display anywhere on the merchant page. If the merchant wants to change the color scheme this can be done directly on the page. Once satisfied the merchant is directed back to a page showing code e.g. HTML for the payment display.

The merchant can copy and paste the code onto the merchant site to quickly and easily display the customized display. If the merchant does not need to see the display on the merchant page the merchant can go directly to the code page to copy and paste.

As a result the merchant can quickly and easily create any number of different displays both in color style and payment options for use on different pages of a merchant site.

These and other features and advantages of the present disclosure will be more readily apparent from the detailed description of the embodiments set forth below taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

In one example one format is a single row of funding sources another format is single column of funding sources and a third format is two columns of funding sources. The merchant may be presented with only one format or many different ones. In one embodiment the same standard formats are presented to all merchants or users. In another embodiment the formats are still standard but differ depending on characteristics of the merchant such as size status with the payment provider etc.

In still another embodiment the format types presented may be merchant specific. For example the payment provider may scrape information about the merchant site from the Internet or obtain information about the merchant site by other means. Such information may include the size colors etc. of the merchant site as well as the size location colors etc. of the payment options portion of the merchant site. Using this information the payment provider can present options that better fit the look and feel of the specific merchant site.

Next at step the merchant selects the desired format from the presented options. This can be accomplished by clicking or selected a link or button associated with the desired format. The selection is conveyed to the payment provider who then provides the merchant with a screen to select specific funding sources or payment options. In one embodiment the types of funding sources are independent of the merchant. In another embodiment the funding sources are dependent such as the size of the merchant the country of origin of the merchant etc. Examples of funding sources include but are not limited to different credit cards debit cards and payment providers. More specific examples include Visa MasterCard American Express Discover PayPal BillMeLater Switch Maestro DirectDebit 3V and 4etoiles. The funding sources may be shown in logo format or other representations which may make it easier for the merchant to see the different funding sources because these may have very distinctive and well recognized looks.

In addition the merchant may want additional information about the various funding sources. This can also be provided using the tool. For example if the merchant moves a mouse or other means over a specific funding source information about the funding source appears such as countries in which the funding source is accepted. Other information may include the percentage of people having or using the funding source in each country. For even more specific information the merchant may be provided with usage information of the funding source for purchases made with this particular merchant. Such information may allow the merchant to better select which funding sources to select as payment options for the merchant s site.

At step the merchant selects the desired funding sources. In one embodiment the merchant drags and drops desired funding sources into a field or box. In another embodiment the merchant clicks taps or double clicks on a funding source which places that funding source into a field or box. The box may be the same shape for all format such as a generic rectangular box or the box may be based on the selected format. For example if the selected format is a square or circular shaped grouping of funding options the box may be square or circular shaped. The merchant may also determine the priority or order given to the funding options such that the funding sources are shown in the order selected or the user can place the funding sources in specific positions relative to other selected funding sources. The merchant may also be given the option of changing the selected funding sources such as making one larger or smaller than others.

Once the desired funding sources are selected the merchant continues to step where the merchant chooses a desired color scheme for the display. The selected funding sources and the selected format can be shown at this step. The default display may be white or another color independent of the merchant. In another embodiment the default color scheme for the display may be particular to the merchant such as based on information about the merchant site. If the merchant wants the default color the merchant may move to the next step. However if the merchant wants to change the default or otherwise customize the color scheme the merchant can easily do this on the page.

In one embodiment the merchant is presented with one or more color palettes. For example one color palette may show the spectrum of colors available. The merchant can then select a range of colors e.g. more blue more orange more green etc. This can be done by selecting the desired portion of the first color palette such as with a slide tool or by clicking on an area. The selected color region may then be expanded into a second color palette that gives the merchant the opportunity to further refine the color scheme. This can be done by moving a mouse or other selector to a desired portion within this second color palette. Wherever the selection means is placed the color changes so that the merchant can see how each color looks with the previously selected format and funding sources. The selected color may be displayed over the entire display or in some other design. The merchant may also select different color schemes for different portions of the display.

Next at step the merchant determines whether to proceed with creating the display or previewing the display on the merchant site. If the latter the merchant selects that option which presents the merchant with appropriate instructions if needed. In one embodiment the merchant is asked to enter and submit a URL address of the merchant website. If the payment provider already knows the merchant website address this step may be omitted.

The merchant website is then displayed for the merchant at step along with the just created display or graphic. In one embodiment the merchant may move the graphic throughout the web page. This enables the merchant to better visualize how the display will look on the site.

A determination is then made at step whether the display is acceptable. For example the merchant after seeing the color scheme on the actual site may want to change the color scheme of the display and or select a different display format for the payment options. If so the merchant may revise the display such as on the merchant page. This can be done in any number of ways. In one embodiment the merchant double clicks on the display which then displays to the user editing tools. The editing tools can be the color palette as shown previously sizing tools and or available formats.

The merchant then revises the display at step . Once completed and acceptable the merchant is presented with code for creating the display or graphic such as in HTML code. The merchant may still be given the option of revising the display which the merchant may see on this page.

The merchant can then copy the code at step and paste the code into the merchant s website code at step . Thus the merchant can quickly and easily create and display the customized display on the website. The payment provider offering this tool can have its logo as part of the display such that the payment provider is assured a certain branding on the merchant site.

The merchant is then presented with the screenshot of although without any funding sources in a box . Initially only available funding sources are shown in a box . As seen the funding sources are shown as logos. Not shown is that the merchant can move a mouse over a specific funding source to show additional information about that funding source such as countries available for use. Desired funding sources are then moved into box such as dragging and dropping specific funding sources into box . As shown four funding sources are selected and in a specific order with Visa first PayPal second American Express third and Maestro fourth. The merchant may also re order the selected funding sources within box or move funding sources back to box to de select that source.

Once the merchant is satisfied with the funding sources the merchant selects the continue button to proceed to the next step shown in . allows the merchant to choose a desired color scheme. shows the a sample current display with the selected four payment sources and a color background. Below sample current display is a color palette . Color palette includes a vertical color bar . The merchant can move arrows along color bar to select a color range. The color range indicated by arrows is shown in a display . Within display the merchant can select a more specific color within the color range such as moving a selector . The selected color is shown as the color background in sample current display . Thus the merchant can see various colors on display as the merchant moves along color bar or display .

Once the merchant has decided on a particular color the merchant may preview the display on the merchant site or go ahead and create the display. For the former the merchant selects a site preview button and for the latter the merchant selects a create graphic button .

The merchant then sees the entered webpage along with sample current display as shown in . The merchant can then move display to different areas of the webpage such as by dragging and dropping display . This will allow the merchant to see the display in a realistic context. shows display moved into the body of the website.

Once display is moved into a desired position the merchant can change the color scheme on the site. shows color palette overlayed on the website such as when the merchant double clicks on display or other means. The merchant can then change the color using the color palette where each time either arrows or selector is moved the color in display is changed. Other means may also be suitable to change the color. For example an eyedropper type tool can be used to select a color directly from the webpage and to use that selected color in the display. This allows the merchant to select the exact color desired from the webpage instead of trying to match a color from a color palette.

This takes the merchant to a screen shown in . may also be seen when the merchant selects create graphic button from . In display is shown along with a code listing . Code listing is shown in HTML code but other code formats may also be suitable. The merchant can simply copy and paste code listing to create display on the merchant site. This page also allows the merchant to edit colors or create another display such as for use in a different country by selecting appropriate buttons and respectively.

Network in one embodiment may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet and or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of communication networks. In another example the network may comprise a wireless telecommunications network e.g. cellular phone network adapted to communicate with other communication networks such as the Internet.

Client device in one embodiment may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example client device may be implemented as a personal computer of a user e.g. a client or customer in communication with network . In other examples client device may be implemented as a wireless telephone e.g. cell phone personal digital assistant PDA notebook computer and or various other generally known types of wired and or wireless computing devices. It should be appreciated that in various embodiments client device may be referred to as a user device or a customer client device without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Client device in one embodiment may include one or more browser applications which may be used to provide a user interface to permit user to browse information available over network . For example browser application may be implemented as a web browser to view information available over network such as the online tool for creating a display described above. In one implementation browser application comprises a software program such as a graphical user interface GUI executable by a processor that is configured to interface and communicate with the one or more merchant devices and payment provider server via network . For example user is able to access merchant websites to view such sites for display creation and placement. User through client device may also communicate with payment provider server to create an account as described herein.

As such client device in one embodiment may include other applications as may be desired in one or more embodiments to provide additional features available to user including creating an online logo or display with payment provider server . For example applications may include interfaces and communication protocols that allow the user to receive and transmit information through online sites. Applications may also include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or various other types of generally known programs and or applications.

Merchant device which can be similar to client device may be maintained by one or more service providers e.g. merchant sites auction site marketplaces social networking sites etc. offering various items such as products and or services through their websites. Merchant device may be in communication with a merchant server capable of handling various on line transactions. The merchant which could be any representative or employee of the merchant can create a payment display with the payment provider in order to receive payments from consumers making purchases through the merchant site. Merchant device may include purchase application for offering products services for purchase.

Merchant device in one embodiment may include a browser application and other applications similar to browser application and applications in client device . Browser application and applications enable the merchant to access a payment provider web site and communicate with payment provider server such as to convey and receive information to create a payment display through the payment provider. As described in greater detail herein embodiments of the present disclosure provide a way for the merchant to quickly and easily create customized payment or other displays for the website by communicating with payment provider server .

Payment provider server in one embodiment may be maintained by an online payment provider which may provide processing for online financial and information transactions on behalf of user with a merchant. Payment provider server may include at least one identity application which may be adapted to interact with the client device and or merchant device over network to facilitate the purchase of items products and or services by user .

Payment provider server in one embodiment may be configured to maintain a plurality of user and merchant accounts in an account database each of which may include or be separate from an account information associated with individual users including user and one or more merchants or sellers associated with one or more merchant devices . For example account information may include identity information of user and merchants such as one or more full names business names street addresses email addresses and phone numbers website addresses or other types of financial information which may be used to facilitate online transactions between user and merchants. As such identity application may be configured to interact with a merchant server user or other payee to process obtain and store information for creating a display and other tasks. Identity application may also store completed display for different merchant sites created by the merchant.

In one implementation user and or a merchant has attributes stored with payment provider server such as website addresses and information about the website such as color schemes payment option locations etc. These attributes may be obtained from the user and or merchant directly or through web scraping or other means. In various implementations one or more attributes may be passed to payment provider server as part of the process for creating an online display and the attributes may be used by payment server to obtain additional information for the display through various sources such as during a web scraping.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure computer system such as a personal computer and or a network server includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information which interconnects subsystems and components such as a processing component e.g. processor micro controller digital signal processor DSP etc. a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM a disk drive component e.g. magnetic or optical a network interface component e.g. modem or Ethernet card a display component e.g. CRT or LCD an input component e.g. keyboard keypad or virtual keyboard and a cursor control component e.g. mouse pointer or trackball . In one implementation disk drive component may comprise a database having one or more disk drive components.

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure computer system performs specific operations by processor executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component such as described above with respect to the consumer merchant and or payment provider in . Such instructions may be read into system memory component from another computer readable medium such as static storage component or disk drive component . In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the present disclosure.

Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks such as disk drive component volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by a communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Computer system may transmit and receive messages data information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through communication link and a communication interface . Network interface component may include an antenna either separate or integrated to enable transmission and reception via communication link . Received program code may be executed by processor as received and or stored in disk drive component or some other non volatile storage component for execution.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. For example the above description is directed to creating online displays for payment options with logos. However other types of displays can be created with different content and formats. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

