---

title: System and method for deploying handheld devices to secure an area
abstract: A handheld security system includes a set of handheld devices positioned at a group of access points to a secure area. The handheld device includes a set of input/output devices including a text and graphics display, a camera, a local security database and a set of security devices including an RFID reader, a bar code reader, a magnetic stripe card reader and a biometric scanner. The set of handheld devices are communicatively connected through wireless signaling and protocol to one another and to a server operating a global a global security database. The local security database is synchronized to the global security database. A location stack table is continuously updated with security events and monitored for violation of a set of anti-passback rules. An association table associates a set of assets and a set of personnel, allowing for visitor tracking and asset tracking on a schedule.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09619951&OS=09619951&RS=09619951
owner: MDI Security, LLC
number: 09619951
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160527
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 467 624 filed Aug. 25 2014 which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 609 097 filed Sep. 10 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 819 855. Each patent application identified above is incorporated here by reference in its entirety to provide continuity of disclosure.

The present invention relates to computer driven security systems including hardware and software configurations to operate access control and video surveillance systems.

Historically access control systems have required dedicated card readers and fixed door controllers connected to electro mechanical door locks or gates. Local door controllers provide for recognition of magnetic cards and generation of control signals for electromagnetic door locks or turnstiles. Separate and apart from access control video surveillance and video recording systems have required fixed cameras and positioning motors and matrix switches coupled with mass storage devices such as digital video recorders to store video data. However in many situations the access control systems and video surveillance system have been separate. Such legacy systems include among other things digital and analog cameras and positioning hardware door controllers gate controllers alarms motion sensors card readers biometric readers and keypads for password entry. For each of these different types of legacy systems there are numerous controllers and protocols.

Modern access control systems seek to integrate access control and video surveillance with an integrated combination of hardware and software operated on a central computer server. Generally such servers provide control for multiple access control points communication with local controllers cameras and camera position controllers and digital and analog video recording devices. The servers also generally provide software for user interfaces database control and drivers for various hardware components.

In use an access badge is swiped through a card reader and a code is typed into a keypad. Digital signals including codes from the access badge and the keypad are locally stored and transmitted via the network to the server. The security software validates the access badge and code and transmits a signal to the local controller to allow or deny access. The local controller then sends an analog signal to the hardware component.

Legacy security systems are highly susceptible to failure. For example failure of any wired connection between doors local controllers and the server will cause the access controller or door controller to be inoperable. As another example component mismatch due to hardware changes and software updates can cause system failure. Still further equipment failure of a hardwired access point often leaves the access point unusable until repair is made.

U.S. Patent Application No. 2011 0247058 to Kisters discloses an on demand personal identification method incorporating a PDA with a sensor system interface and a wireless transmitter receiver to transmit data. However no provision is made for integration of the PDA into a legacy security system or to provide for communication of coordinated messages between PDAs nor is self discovery of a PDA network disclosed.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 809 951 to Hellenthal discloses a system and method for automated border crossing checks that includes reading identification data from an identification card using a card reader attached to a gate and conveying the identification data to a database. However no provision is made for replacing a malfunctioning card reader while repairs are made.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 586 441 to Zekich discloses a security system for access to a secure area with two sets of revolving doors defining chambers with identification sensors. A secure guard room includes a pass window for accepting and or supplying passcards for entry. However no provision is made for substituting one controller for another if the system becomes inoperable.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 867 683 to Calvesio et al. discloses controlling access to high security zones through doors with biometric and ID readers to identify individuals and a scheduler to ensure that an individual is only allowed access to one zone at a time. However no provision is made to execute these functions portably.

U.S. Publication No. 2006 0018519 to Siegel et al. discloses a handheld device used to record certain biometric data and then transmit it to an offsite processing center for comparison. However no provision is made to coordinate functions of a group of handheld devices or to accommodate legacy hardware.

U.S. Pat. No. 8 015 754 to Slagel discloses a portable security facility having a security sensing device for reading an access device which unlocks a barrier. However no provision is made for control of legacy systems or for discovery of other portable facilities. Further no provision is made for database coordination.

A distributed handheld security system is provided which includes a networked set of handheld devices that can coordinate functions through a central server and accommodates legacy hardware in one embodiment. The handheld devices each include text and graphics displays cameras local databases such as RFID readers a bar code readers card readers biometric scanners and programmable routers. The handheld devices communicate with each other and the server through a wireless network. Legacy hardware is accommodated by distribution of known software drivers protocols and addresses to replace or redirect malfunctioning components. Local databases are provided and are synchronized with a global security database resident on the server. The handheld devices include location stack tables continuously updated with security events and monitored for violation of a set of anti passback rules.

In use the handheld devices are configured to flexibly substitute for or replace access control points in a security system. Further messaging systems are provided to allow the handheld devices to communicate and display information relevant to access control both to each other and to the server.

The following disclosure provides many different embodiments or examples for implementing different features of the system described. Specific examples of components and arrangements are described below to simplify description. These are of course merely examples and are not intended to be limiting. In addition the present disclosure may repeat reference numerals and or letters in the various examples. This repetition is for the purpose of simplicity and clarity and does not in itself dictate a relationship between the various embodiments and or configurations discussed.

Referring to handheld device includes processor memory and a set of peripheral devices. The peripheral devices include keypad display camera network interface RFID reader bar code reader capable of reading bar codes QR codes and the like security card reader and a biometric scanner . The peripheral devices also include programmable router . In preferred embodiments the handheld device can include a smart phone a personal digital assistant a dedicated hardware device or other digital device that are portable and capable of supporting a network connection such as laptop computers and tablet computers.

Network interface enables wired and wireless communications. In a preferred embodiment network interface includes a local radio communications chipset that allows direct communication between several handheld devices of voice information and data.

Handheld device further includes security program instructions residing in memory and executed by processor to interact with a local database and the set of peripheral devices.

In a preferred embodiment handheld device provides authentication using security card pin number and biometric identification for FIPS 201 compliance. Security card reader includes many card reader types for many different security card types. For example security card reader can be a magnetic card reader. In a preferred embodiment security card types supported by the security card reader include but are not limited to FIPS 201 compliant PIV and PIV I cards first responder authentication credential FRAC common access cards CAC mariner administrative cards US State Department PKI cards transportation worker identity TWIC cards contact and contactless smart cards U.S. driver s licenses. The biometric scanner can be any number of biometric devices including but not limited to a fingerprint scanner an eye scanner a voice print recorder and a facial profiler.

Referring to in a preferred embodiment of a system architecture is shown. Architecture includes a set of handheld devices connected through a network to server and local controllers . The number of handheld devices is configurable and limited only by the maximum allowed by the supporting network. Handheld devices communicate through network interfaces using wireless signaling and protocol to network . Examples of the wireless signaling may be a wireless LAN connected to the network through suitable routers and local networking equipment a local WiMax network connected to network through a communications provider radio area network or a cellular system connected to network through a nearby cellular communications radio area network on a communications provider s cellular network. Other protocols and systems are conceivable and the invention is not limited to any particular type of wireless protocol. In a preferred embodiment network is an IP enabled network such as the internet.

Handheld devices further communicate through network to security server . Security server includes a general purpose computer including a processor and memory. Security server is connected to global database . In the preferred embodiment the relational database is an Oracle database controlled by software resident on security server . Other relational databases will suffice so long as query and access times are reasonably small.

Handheld devices communicate through network to a set of local controllers physically installed at the secured area to electronically control doors routers cameras and other hardware.

Referring to a program for system initiation at the server is described. At step program instructions are started. At step the global database is initialized and populated with relevant information and association between data fields. At step the server poles all handheld devices available and authenticates them. During authentication a unique serial number of each handheld device is requested from the handheld device received logged and verified. Verification data is provided by global database so that only authorized handheld devices are enabled. In a preferred embodiment communications between handheld devices and between a handheld device and the server are encrypted. A table is created containing a list of authorized handheld devices and their ID numbers.

At step a geographic map is analyzed and access points are identified. The server then assigns each handheld device to a physical location and receives acknowledgement from each handheld device that it is positioned at the location. In a preferred embodiment the acknowledgement is verified by geophysical location services such as the Global Positioning System GPS .

At step provisioning information for existing local controllers and replacement local controllers is determined by inventorying local controller hardware drivers e.g. API interfaces protocols physical locations and network addresses. Replacement local controllers are local controller units that have become inoperable and for which a handheld device will provide a substitute controller function.

At step the provision information is transmitted to the set of handheld devices based on the physical location proximity to the existing and replacement local controllers.

At step a mode of operation is determined and sent to the handheld device. The mode of operation specifies the number of handheld devices enabled and their locations synchronization requirements wireless protocols encryption protocols and initial deployment instructions.

In one preferred embodiment the mode of operation can be set to server sibling or autonomous. In autonomous mode the handheld devices operate as standalone portals. All authorization events are conducted with use of the local database and local peripheral or hardware interface devices. The local database is not synchronized. In sibling mode each handheld device communicates with its sibling handheld devices only. Each handheld device synchronizes its local database with all other sibling local databases. The local databases are not synchronized with the server. In server mode the handheld devices communicate with the server and synchronize the local databases with the global database. At step a database segment comprising a set of database records specific to the handheld device is downloaded to each handheld device.

At step the server initiates services of the operations of all handheld devices which are authenticated. Servicing the local operations of the handheld devices includes responding to log events authorization events security question events database synchronization and logging shutdown of handheld devices. At step the server synchronizes and updates database segments with data from the local database of each handheld device. At step synchronization failures are logged and are considered a handheld device failure. When such a failure occurs a new handheld device is initiated automatically and dispatched to the geographic location of the failure. An alert signal is generated and displayed. At step which is optional the server sends messages interrupt requests software updates instructions and alerts to each of the handheld devices. Steps and are repeated until the system powers down at step .

Referring to the receive log event service carried out on the server is described. At step the server receives a log event from one or more handheld devices. Receive log events are serviced in a sequential queue.

At step the server stores the pass fail event received from the handheld in the database for example a date and time of the event badge numbers and optionally video data. At step the server queries the global database for special instructions which have been associated for the pass fail event. At step the special instructions are transmitted to one or more of the handheld devices registered on the system. Special instructions executed by the server can take several forms. Special instructions may include instructions to send an email or text message to a recipient regarding the log event. Other examples of special instructions include sending text messages to selected handheld units at various locations for coordinated activity such as a lockdown or closure of access points. Special instructions can also include instructions to one or more video cameras located on the handheld units or a hardwired system to activate or focus on a particular location or tour. Another example of special instructions is to change a physical location of a handheld unit. Another example of special instructions is transmission of written instructions or pictures be displayed on the handheld devices for activities such as arresting or detaining a suspect or impounding a vehicle or property. Further special instructions can provide queries to local databases or requests to handheld devices to provide further authorization information or video data. These special instructions are exemplary. Other special instructions will be obvious to those of skill in the art. At step the server waits for an acknowledgement from one or more of the handheld devices acknowledging the receipt of the special instructions. At step the server returns to servicing local operations.

Referring to a method for receiving and servicing an authorization event is described. At step the server receives an authorization event from one or more handheld devices. If multiple authorization events are received they are serviced in order. At step a server receives authorization data from one or more handheld devices. The authorization data may include badge id passwords or biometric data or video data or other data associated with the authorization event. At step the server queries the global database for clearance data. At step the authorization data is compared against the clearance data for a clearance condition e.g. pass or fail . At step the clearance condition is logged to the database. At step the server queries the global database for special instructions associated with either the clearance condition and or the authorization. At step the server reports the clearance condition to the handheld. At step the special instructions are transmitted to the handheld device or devices. At step the server waits for an acknowledgement of the authorization report and the special instructions from the handheld device. At step the server returns to servicing local operations. Any failure to receive an acknowledgement is treated as a handheld device failure.

Referring to a security question event is described. At step the server receives a security question event from one or more handheld devices. The events are serviced in the order in which they are received. At step the server queries the database for a security question and answer associated with a particular badge or other authorization data. At step the security question and answer are reported to the handheld device. At step the server returns to servicing local operations.

The server described can be a digital computer server having a set of server processors and include a set of server program instructions stored in a server memory and on a server digital media. The digital computer server includes a database system with a global database residing in server memory and the server digital storage media and also executed by the set of server processors. Furthermore it is understood that the database system is inherently accessible by the executed methods via the set of server processors server memory and server digital storage media and via a network through an application programming interface. The server may also be a set of physical machines a set of virtual machines or a combination thereof.

Referring to a method for initialization of a handheld device is described. At step a handheld device is powered up. At step the processor loads the program instructions from memory and executes them. At step the handheld device communicates with the server to authenticate its device id and status. After authentication the handheld device communicates with the server. At step the handheld device downloads and implements assignment instructions and a mode setting for a mode of operation from the server and displays the assignment instructions. At step the assignment instructions and the mode setting are acknowledged. At step the handheld device examines the local wireless network to find sibling handheld devices. This is accomplished by first receiving a table of all active handheld devices and their identification numbers along with a unique authentication code for each handheld device from the server. The authentication codes can be changed. A broadcast signal is then sent on a predetermined channel to verify the table of all active handheld devices. The broadcast signal includes a specific code and an identification of the sending unit. When the signal is received each handheld device responds with its own identification number which is stored in a table on each machine and an acknowledgement code. Each machine maintains a table of device identifications and acknowledgements. If after a predetermined time period the table is not completed a message is sent to the server to report a failure of each non responding handheld device.

At step the handheld device downloads a database segment from the global database into the local database. A database segment is a set of data records in the global database that is relevant to the operation of the particular handheld device. At step the handheld device downloads drivers from the global database including drivers for existing operable physical hardware and drivers for replacement inoperable hardware.

At step the handheld device begins interface with existing physical hardware. Wireless or physical connections and data communication are established between the existing hardware devices such as door controllers and or PTZ cameras. If necessary programmable routers are instantiated and monitored to begin data communication between hardware and or video components and the server. The local hardware devices implement instructions from the handheld devices.

At step the handheld device implements replacement hardware as required. For example if a PTZ camera is inoperable an onboard peripheral device such as a camera is instantiated and begins transmission of video data to the server. The video data available from the peripheral on the handheld device can be focused on a particular location or tour to replace the video information lost from the damaged camera. Similarly inoperable physical barricades such as mantraps or road blocks are replaced with portable peripheral devices with which the handheld device can communicate. In this step communications are established with the replacement hardware. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize that other replacement hardware and communications protocols can be implemented besides those described.

At step on site continuous operation begins according to the mode of operation. At step depending on the mode of operation selected the local database is periodically synchronized to the global database or other local databases by updating the database segment with recent security events and downloading new information contained in the database segment. At step the handheld device disconnects from the system by logging out. At step the handheld device discontinues executing the security program instructions. The handheld device is ultimately powered off at step .

Referring to a program for on site continuous operation of a handheld device is described. At step the handheld device accepts signals from one or more peripheral devices. For example a magnetic card reader reads the data from a magnetic card or badge. As another example a fingerprint image or retina scan can be obtained from peripheral devices. As another example a barcode may be read from a tag located on a document or other physical item. At step the handheld device accepts security data from the one or more of the security devices. At step the local database is queried based on the security data. The database returns a pass condition if the data from the security device matches a designated field. Otherwise a fail condition is returned. At step the pass fail condition is assessed by the handheld device. If the pass fail condition is fail then step is performed where a fail event is associated to the security data and logged to the local database. At step the handheld device receives any special instructions from the server associated with a fail event. For example instructions to the user to detain a suspect or impound a vehicle. At step the handheld device displays any special instructions. At step the handheld device generates any required control signals to operate hardware devices. For example transmitting various driver signals to seize a mantrap or raise a roadway bollard. In another example PTZ signals are sent to a local camera to focus on a particular location and record an image. At step depending on the mode selected synchronization of the local database to the global database or other local databases is initiated and conducted after receiving an acknowledgement signal from the server. At step the handheld device checks a queue in memory to determine if an interrupt signal has been received from a sibling handheld or the server. Interrupt signals include messages for communication to a user machine instructions such as additional programming for the handheld relocation instructions reassignment instructions and or control signal driver updates. At step the handheld stores and executes the interrupt instructions. In the case of messages the messages are displayed. In the case of software updates the handheld replaces the software in its memory upon a system restart. Then the method returns to step .

If at step the pass fail condition is pass then the method performs step where a pass event is associated to the security data and logged to the local database.

At step the program executes an optional step of querying the global database at the server regarding the security data. The global database returns pass condition if the data from the security data matches a designated field in the global database. Otherwise a fail condition is returned. At step the pass fail condition is assessed by the handheld device. If the pass fail condition is fail then the program proceeds to step and executes the instructions found there. If the condition is pass then the program proceeds to step . At step the pass event is associated to the security data and logged to local database. At step which is optional a photo of the person or object associated to the security data is displayed. At step the program waits for an input response from the user acknowledging a pass fail condition based on the displayed photograph. At step the program analyzes the input response. If the response is fail then the program proceeds to step . If the response is pass then at step a pass event is logged to local database. And the program proceeds to step . At step which is optional the handheld device displays a security question. For example a security identification question such as State your mother s maiden name is displayed. In an alternate embodiment the security question is generated by the global server on a rotating and periodic basis and uploaded to each handheld unit for display.

At step the handheld device waits for input from the user regarding the responses to security question. At step if the response is incorrect a fail condition is generated and the programs proceeds to step . If however the input to the security question is correct then a pass condition is generated in step and the method proceeds to step . At step the local database is updated with the pass event and time.

At step the local stack is updated by pushing the user id asset id to and from location and time onto the stack or popping it from the stack depending on if the user is entering or leaving a secured area. If an attempt to push a location onto a stack is made and a location is already present on the stack then step an error condition will be generated known as anti passback violation. Similarly an anti passback violation is generated if data is attempted to be popped off the stack when it does not exist on the stack. The program then moves to step . If there is no anti passback violation at step the program moves to step . At step instructions are received from the server or other sibling handheld units. At step instructions containing a message for the user are displayed. At step the handheld generates an appropriate control signal to operate local hardware such as door locks turnstiles or programmable routers. The program then proceeds to step and executes the steps found there.

Global database includes a relational database further comprising a set of tables each table having a set of rows and columns the rows corresponding to database records and columns corresponding to fields in each record. The database records in global database include a set of synchronized copies of the local database records in the local databases of all handheld devices attached to the server and all local controllers attached to the server. In a preferred embodiment the tables in global database include at least a human resource table for holding employee and other onsite personnel data an asset table for holding information identifying and describing assets and an associations table for associating one asset to another asset for associating one asset to one person and for associating one person to another person.

Segments of the human resource table asset table and association table are held in the local databases of each handheld devices and synchronized into the global database. Each handheld device and the server execute a set of program instructions to perform operations on and with the association table the asset table and the human resource table. The association table is operated on within a scheduling program and as an asset control program to control the movement of assets control the movement of visitors and control the movement of personnel in and between secure environments.

Referring to human resource table includes a set of human resource records further comprising person id field badge id field badge code field driver license number field RFID field level of classified access field set of approved locations field field holding a pointer to a location stack entry video data field and set of biometric data fields and corresponding to different types of biometric data security question field security answer field and schedule field . The schedule field includes a set of location codes and associated allowed time intervals.

Referring to asset table includes a set of asset records further comprising asset id field RFID field barcode field QR code field model number field serial number field VIN number field used for identifying vehicle assets level of classification required to receive the asset set of approved locations for the asset field holding a pointer to a location stack entry video data field for holding a visual record of the item and description field for holding a text description of the item.

Referring to association table includes a set of association records having at least association id field first person id field second person id field first asset id field second asset id field description of the reason for the association set of instructions pertaining to the association expected location pertaining to a scheduled location of the association expected time field pertaining to a scheduled time observed location field for recording an observed location observed time field for recording a observed time corresponding to the observed location checked out Boolean field and checked in Boolean field . The first and second person id fields contain foreign keys to records in the human resource table. The first and second asset id fields contain foreign keys to records in the asset table.

Referring to a location stack table describes the location of each person and each asset in the global database. Each tracking record is associated to a security event such as badge scan at an entry exit point. The location stack table is defined by event id field event time field area to area entered field area from area exited field photograph field person id field and asset id field . The photograph field is for storing photograph of an event area to the event time. The location stack table has a set of rows with one row specifying an event entry.

An example of anti passback using the location stack table is as follows. At event 0 a security badge is located outside of the facility. At event 1 the security badge is scanned at time 11 00 a.m. while entering security area 1 and leaving security area 0. No picture is taken. At event 2 the security badge is scanned at time 11 05 a.m. entering security area 2 from security area 1. A picture is taken. At event 3 the security badge is scanned at time 11 12 a.m. entering security area 3 and exit security area 2. A picture is taken. At event 4 the security badge is scanned at time 12 01 p.m. while entering security area 1 and exiting security area 0. A picture is taken. Event 4 represents an anti passback violation because the area to field of event 3 does not match the area from field of event 4.

Referring to preferred embodiment of a database association table in the global and local databases is described. A set of data records for the human resource table the asset table and the association table is disclosed to illustrate association of people to assets. An asset holder has a human resource record in the human resource table that includes a first set of fields populated with person id a badge id for a security badge a classification level and a location stack where the location stack is a set of entries in the location stack table for the person id .

An asset has an asset record in the asset table that includes a second set of fields populated with asset id RFID code classification level location stack and set of approved locations . Other identifiers assigned to asset id besides RFID code are possible for example a bar code. The location stack is a set of entries in the location stack table for the asset id .

An asset association record in set of asset association records includes asset id person id checked out field checked in field expected time field expected location field observed time field and observed location field . When the asset is initially assigned to the asset holder during a check out process the asset is associated to the asset holder in a first asset association record in set of association records with a location value in the observed location a time value in the observed time field and a checked out field set to be true.

Referring to preferred embodiment of a database association table in the global and local databases is described. An alternate set of data records for the human resource table and the association table is disclosed to illustrate association of people to people. For example a visitor is assigned to a corporate escort while visiting a facility. The human resource table has a human resource record for the visitor and a human resource record for the corporate escort. The global database further includes an association table with a set of association records . The visitor is associated to the escort according to a schedule in set of association records . The set of association records are used to track the visitor schedule locations and additional escorts.

Human resource record for the visitor includes a first set of fields populated with visitor id badge identifier driver license number digital photo classification level location stack and a set of approved locations . Human resource record for the corporate escort includes a second set of fields populated with escort id badge id classification level and a location stack . Each association record in the set of association records include a first person id field containing escort id second person id field containing visitor id checked out field checked in field expected time field expected location field observed time field and observed location field . At the time that the visitor checks in at a main security station the visitor is associated to the corporate escort in a first asset association record in set of association records with a location value in the observed location a time value in the observed time field and a checked out field set to be true.

Referring to preferred embodiment of a database association table in the global and local databases is described. An alternate set of data records for the asset table and the association table is disclosed to illustrate association of assets to assets. For example a set of field equipment is assigned to a vehicle. The asset table includes asset record for the field equipment and asset record for the vehicle. The global database further includes an association table with a set of association records . The field equipment is associated to the vehicle according to a schedule in set of association records . The set of association records are used to track the field equipment and the vehicle.

Asset record for the field equipment is populated with asset id RFID code a classification level a location stack and a set of approved locations . Other identifiers assigned to asset id besides RFID code are possible for example a bar code.

Asset record for the vehicle includes asset id RFID code VIN number location stack and a set of approved locations . Other identifiers assigned to asset id besides RFID code are possible for example a bar code.

Each association record in the set of association records include a first asset id field containing asset id second asset field containing asset id checked out field checked in field expected time field expected location field observed time field and observed location field . At the time that someone places the field equipment into the vehicle the field equipment is associated to the vehicle in a first asset association record in set of association records with a location value in the observed location a time value in the observed time field and a checked out field set to be true.

Referring then to several examples of preferred deployment scenarios are described. However one of skill in the art will recognize that many other deployment scenarios are possible. Secure perimeters and provide impenetrable barriers to personnel and vehicles and can be either man made or natural for example a fence walls in a building a mountain range or a river. Secure perimeter provides a barrier between non secure area and secure area . Similarly secure perimeter provides a barrier between secure areas and and secure perimeter provides a secure barrier between secure area and secure area .

Gaps such as portals doors or other breeches in the secure perimeters are present. For example portals exist in secure perimeter portals in secure perimeter and portals exist in secure perimeter . Each portal is associated with a specific geographic location and unambiguously identified to the system and stored in the global database. For example GPS coordinates gate numbers or building door locations. Movement of personnel vehicles and assets must necessarily travel through one of portals and in order to move between non secure area secure area secure area and secure area .

In one preferred embodiment of a deployment scenario a handheld device is physically located in each gap. For example security devices A E are deployed in the portals of secure perimeter . Handheld devices A E are deployed in the portals of secure perimeter . Similarly handheld devices A E are deployed in portals of secure perimeter .

In a first deployment example a secure building such as the Pentagon has an access control point such as a door controller malfunction. In this scenario a single handheld device is deployed at the access control point to substitute for the malfunctioning controller. A segment of the global database relevant to the malfunctioning door controller is downloaded to the handheld device along with written instructions to the user and an inventory of malfunctioning and replacement hardware and operational protocols and IP applications. The handheld device also receives driver information from installed physical hardware and peripheral devices that allows the handheld unit to operate as the local controller. Access control of the door resumes via the handheld device until repairs to the door controller can be made.

In a second deployment example a security system and access control system in an entire building malfunctions. In this example a separate handheld device is deployed at each access control point in the building such as gates doors and vehicle entrances. Appropriate database segments hardware inventories protocols and drivers instructions and physical locations are downloaded to and implemented by each handheld device. The cameras attached to the handheld devices stream a video signal to the server to substitute for malfunctioning security cameras of the building. The deployment of handheld devices temporarily provides access control and video surveillance to the entire building until the malfunctions can be repaired.

In a third deployment example man made barriers are erected for all perimeters. A handheld device is deployed in each gap providing a secure set of access points. Circumstances in which this type of deployment would be useful include public events and disease quarantine. In this deployment example a complete copy of the global database GPS coordinates for access points and instructions are downloaded to each handheld device. The peripheral devices available at the handheld devices provide physical security without any interface with legacy hardware.

A fourth deployment example a standalone handheld device is deployed from a secure area such as secure area however the handheld device is not associated any gap portal or legacy hardware. In this scenario a user exploits the portability of a wireless connection of the handheld device to conduct security checks at random. Individuals within the secure area can be checked for credentials badges biometric information documents scents sounds and passwords through communication with and comparison to information in the local database or global database. Furthermore picture data from a camera or stored in a database can be displayed on the display of the handheld device and compared to visual information or images available to the user. This scenario allows confirmation of the presence or absence of assets vehicles persons documents scents sounds and other tangible things readily perceived by a human operator.

While this disclosure has been provided in reference to various preferred embodiments along with other illustrative embodiments the descriptions are not intended to be construed in a limiting sense. Various modifications and combinations of the illustrative embodiments as well as other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to persons skilled in the art upon reference to the description. It is therefore intended that the appended claims encompass any such modifications or embodiments.

An embodiment of the present disclosure can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. For example one of the previously described embodiments may be implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc. In addition various steps of the above processes may be performed in another order split into additional steps or combined into a single step. Steps may also be removed and or added to any of the above processes.

Furthermore the present disclosure can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a tangible computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a tangible computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and digital video disc DVD .

Although embodiments of the present disclosure have been described in detail those skilled in the art should understand that they may make various changes substitutions and alterations herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly all such changes substitutions and alterations are intended to be included within the scope of the present disclosure as defined in the following claims. In the claims means plus function clauses are intended to cover the structures described herein as performing the recited function and not only structural equivalents but also equivalent structures.

