---

title: Systems and methods for determining a status of a component of a device
abstract: Methods and systems for determining a status of a component of a device are provided. An example method includes triggering an action of a component of a device, and responsively receiving information associated with the action of the component from a sensor. The method further includes a computing system having a processor and a memory comparing the information with calibration data and determining a status of the component based on the comparison. In some examples, the calibration data may include information derived from data received from a pool of one or more devices utilizing same or similar components as the component. The determined status may include information associated with a performance of the component with respect to performances of same or similar components of the pool of devices. In one example, the device may self-calibrate the component based on the status.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09486922&OS=09486922&RS=09486922
owner: X Development LLC
number: 09486922
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160330
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 556 846 filed on Dec. 1 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 757 808 filed on Feb. 3 2013 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 595 865 filed on Feb. 7 2012 the entirety of each of which are herein incorporated by reference.

This disclosure relates to robot cloud computing and in examples to determining a status of a component of a robotic device in a robot cloud interaction.

Cloud computing refers to provision of computational resources via a computer network. In a traditional model of computing both data and software are fully contained on a user s computer. In cloud computing however the user s computer may contain relatively little software or data perhaps a minimal operating system and web browser for example and may serve as a display terminal for processes occurring on a network of computers. A common shorthand provided for a cloud computing service or even an aggregation of existing cloud services is the cloud .

Cloud computing has been referred to as client server computing however there may be distinctions between general cloud computing and client server computing. For example client server computing may include a distributed application structure that partitions tasks or workloads between providers of a resource or service e.g. servers and service requesters e.g. clients . Client server computing generally involves a one to one relationship between the server and the client whereas cloud computing includes generic services that can be accessed by generic clients e.g. a one to one relationship or connection may not be required . Thus cloud computing generally includes client server computing and additional services and functionality.

Cloud computing may free users from certain hardware and software installation and maintenance tasks through use of simpler hardware on the user s computer that accesses a vast network of computing resources e.g. processors hard drives etc. . Sharing of resources may reduce cost to individuals. Thus any computer connected to the cloud may be connected to the same pool of computing power applications and files. Users can store and access personal files such as music pictures videos and bookmarks or play games or use productivity applications on a remote server rather than physically carrying around a storage medium such as a DVD or thumb drive.

In one example a client device may be a computing device with sensors actuators and other components. For example the client device may be a robotic device including sensors such as a gyroscope optical sensor biosensor wireless sensor etc. and actuators such as motors wheels moveable arms etc.

This disclosure may disclose inter alia systems and methods for determining a status of a component of a robotic device in a robot cloud interaction.

In one example a method is provided that comprises triggering an action of a component of a robotic device and responsively receiving information associated with the action of the component of the robotic device from a sensor. The method may further include a computing system having a processor and a memory comparing the information with calibration data. The calibration data may comprise information derived from data received from a pool of one or more robotic devices utilizing same or similar components. According to the method the computing system may also determine a status of the component based on the comparison. In some examples the status may comprise information associated with a performance of the component.

Any of the methods described herein may be provided in a form of instructions stored on a non transitory computer readable medium that when executed by a computing device cause the computing device to perform functions of the method. Further examples may also include articles of manufacture including tangible computer readable media that have computer readable instructions encoded thereon and the instructions may comprise instructions to perform functions of the methods described herein.

In another example a computer readable memory having stored thereon instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to perform functions is provided. The functions may comprise triggering an action of a component of a robotic device and responsively receiving information associated with the component of the robotic device from a sensor. The functions may further include comparing the information with calibration data. The calibration data may comprise information derived from data received from a pool of one or more robotic devices utilizing same or similar components. The functions may also include determining a status of the component based on the comparison. In some examples the status may comprise information associated with a performance of the component.

The computer readable memory may include a non transitory computer readable medium for example such as computer readable media that stores data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and Random Access Memory RAM . The computer readable memory may also include non transitory media such as secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable memory may also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. The computer readable memory may be considered a computer readable storage medium for example or a tangible storage medium.

In addition circuitry may be provided that is configured to perform logical functions in any processes or methods described herein.

In still further examples any type of devices may be used or configured to perform logical functions in any processes or methods described herein.

In another example a system is provided that comprises a robotic device and a computing component. The robotic device may be configured to receive via a network information associated with instructions for performing an action of a component of the robotic device. The robotic device may be further configured to transmit via the network information associated with the component that is received from a sensor. The computing component may comprise a processor and a memory coupled to the processor and may be capable of communicating with a pool of robotic devices over the network. The computing component may be configured to trigger the action of the component of the robotic device and responsively receive information associated with the component of the robotic device from the sensor. The computing component may also be configured to compare the information with calibration data. The calibration data may include information derived from data received from the pool of robotic devices and the pool of robotic devices may utilize same or similar components. The computing component may be further configured to determine a status of the component based on the comparison. In some examples the status may comprise information associated with a performance of the component.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the figures and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying figures which form a part hereof. In the figures similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description figures and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the scope of the subject matter presented herein. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the figures can be arranged substituted combined separated and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated herein.

This disclosure may disclose inter alia methods and systems for determining a status of a component of a robotic device in a robot cloud interaction. An example method includes triggering an action of a component of a robotic device over time. For example the action may be a predetermined movement action or other function that activates one or more components of the robotic device. In some examples the components may include sensors e.g. a gyroscope optical sensor biosensor wireless sensor etc. and or actuators e.g. motors wheels moveable arms etc. of the robotic device. However the method may be applicable to any component of the robotic device.

In response to the action of the component information associated with the component of the robotic device may be responsively received from a sensor of the robotic device. For example in an instance in which the component is an actuator the sensor may be associated with an actuator of the robotic device and receive information in response to movement of the actuator.

According to the method the information may be compared with calibration data that may include information derived from data received from a pool of robotic devices. The pool of robotic devices may include robotic devices utilizing same or similar components as the component of the robotic device. As an example the data may include historical operational data or real time operational data collected from a population of robotic devices. Information may be derived from the data collected from the population of robotic devices to form the calibration data. In one instance a computing system having a processor and a memory may compare the received information associated with the component of the robotic device with the calibration data. For example the calibration data may include nominal data such as averages for various characteristics of the component and the nominal data may be compared with the received information associated with the component.

In addition a status of the component may be determined by the computing system based on the comparison. For example the comparison may indicate a miscalibrated or malfunctioning component and the status may include information identifying the miscalibration or malfunction of the component.

In one example the method may be performed by the robotic device and the robotic device may further self calibrate or auto tune the component based on the status. For example the robotic device may receive the calibration data from a server in a cloud in order to perform the comparison. The cloud may also be connected to multiple robotic devices utilizing same or similar components as the component of the robotic device.

In other examples the method may be performed by the server in the cloud. In one instance the server may receive the information associated with the component and may notify the robotic device or an operator of the robotic device of the status of the component based on the comparison.

Additionally in one instance the method may be performed in an on going basis so as to calibrate or identify a status of the component in light of changing conditions. Thus the method may provide for an automated monitoring of components of robotic devices by way of a robot cloud interaction.

Referring now to the figures is an example system for cloud based computing. Cloud based computing generally refers to networked computer architectures in which application execution and storage may be divided to some extent between client and server devices. A cloud may refer to a service or a group of services accessible over a network e.g. Internet by client and server devices for example.

In one example any computer connected to the cloud may be connected to the same pool of computing power applications and files. Thus cloud computing enables a shared pool of configurable computing resources e.g. networks servers storage applications and services that can be provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction. Users can store and access personal files such as music pictures videos and bookmarks or play games or use productivity applications on a remote server rather than physically carrying around a storage medium.

As an example in contrast to a predominately client based or server based application a cloud based application may store copies of data and or executable program logic at remote server devices while allowing client devices to download at least some of this data and program logic as needed for execution at the client devices. In some examples downloaded data and program logic can be tailored to capabilities of specific client devices e.g. a personal computer tablet or mobile phone or robot accessing the cloud based application. In addition dividing application execution and storage between the client and server devices allows more processing to be performed by the server devices taking advantage of server devices processing power and capability for example.

Cloud based computing can also refer to distributed computing architectures in which data and program logic for a cloud based application are shared between one or more client devices and or server devices on a near real time basis. Parts of this data and program logic may be dynamically delivered as needed or otherwise to various clients accessing the cloud based application. Details of the architecture may be transparent to users of client devices. Thus a PC user or robot client device accessing a cloud based application may not be aware that the PC or robot downloads program logic and or data from the server devices or that the PC or robot offloads processing or storage functions to the server devices for example.

In a cloud includes a cloud service a cloud platform a cloud infrastructure and a database . The cloud may include more or fewer components and each of the cloud service the cloud platform the cloud infrastructure and the database may comprise multiple elements as well. Thus one or more of the described functions of the system may be divided up into additional functional or physical components or combined into fewer functional or physical components. In some further examples additional functional and or physical components may be added to the examples illustrated by . Delivery of cloud computing may involve multiple cloud components communicating with each other over application programming interfaces such as web services and three tier architectures for example.

The cloud may represent a networked computer architecture and in one example the cloud service represents a queue for handling requests from client devices. The cloud platform may include a frontend of the cloud and may be coupled to the cloud service to perform functions to interact with client devices. The cloud platform may include applications used to access the cloud via a user interface such as a web browser. The cloud infrastructure may include service application of billing components of the cloud and thus may interact with the cloud service . The database may represent storage capabilities by the cloud and thus may be accessed by any of the cloud service the cloud platform and or the cloud infrastructure .

The system includes a number of client devices coupled to or configured to be capable of communicating with components of the cloud . For example a computer a mobile device a host and a robot client are shown coupled to the cloud . Of course more or fewer client devices may be coupled to the cloud . In addition different types of client devices may be coupled to the cloud . For example any of the client devices may generally comprise a display system memory and a processor.

The computer may be any type of computing device e.g. PC laptop computer etc. and the mobile device may be any type of mobile computing device e.g. laptop mobile telephone cellular telephone etc. .

The host may be any type of computing device or transmitter including a laptop computer a mobile telephone etc. that is configured to transmit data to the cloud .

The robot client may comprise any computing device that has connection abilities to the cloud and that has an actuation capability e.g. electromechanical capabilities . A robot may further be a combination of computing devices. In some examples the robot may collect data and upload the data to the cloud . The cloud may be configured to perform calculations or analysis on the data and return processed data to the robot client . In some examples as shown in the cloud may include a computer that is not co located with the robot client . In other examples the robot client may send data to a second client e.g. computer for processing.

Any of the client devices may include additional components. For example the robot client may include one or more sensors such as a gyroscope or an accelerometer to measure movement of the robot client . Other sensors may further include any of Global Positioning System GPS receivers encoders infrared sensors optical sensors biosensors Radio Frequency identification RFID systems wireless sensors and or compasses among others for example.

In addition any of the client devices may include an integrated user interface UI that allows a user to interact with the device. For example the robot client may include various buttons and or a touchscreen interface that allow a user to provide input. As another example the robot client device may include a microphone configured to receive voice commands from a user. Furthermore the robot client may include one or more interfaces that allow various types of user interface devices to be connected to the robot client .

In communication links between client devices and the cloud may include wired connections such as a serial or parallel bus. Communication links may also be wireless links such as link which may include Bluetooth IEEE 802.11 IEEE 802.11 may refer to IEEE 802.11 2007 IEEE 802.11n 2009 or any other IEEE 802.11 revision or other wireless based communication links.

In other examples the system may include access points through which the client devices may communicate with the cloud . Access points may take various forms for example an access point may take the form of a wireless access point WAP or wireless router. As another example if a client device connects using a cellular air interface protocol such as a CDMA or GSM protocol an access point may be a base station in a cellular network that provides Internet connectivity via the cellular network.

As such the client devices may include a wired or wireless network interface through which the client devices can connect to the cloud or access points . As an example the client devices may be configured use one or more protocols such as 802.11 802.16 WiMAX LTE GSM GPRS CDMA EV DO and or HSPDA among others. Furthermore the client devices may be configured use multiple wired and or wireless protocols such as 3G or 4G data connectivity using a cellular communication protocol e.g. CDMA GSM or WiMAX as well as for WiFi connectivity using 802.11 . Other examples are also possible.

An example illustration of a robotic device is shown in . In one example the robotic device is configured as a robot. In some examples a robot may contain computer hardware such as a processor memory or data storage and one or more sensors . For example a robot controller e.g. processor computing system and sensors may all be custom designed for a specific robot. The robot may have a link to access cloud servers as shown in . A wired link may include for example a parallel bus or a serial bus such as a Universal Serial Bus USB . A wireless link may include for example Bluetooth IEEE 802.11 Cellular such as GSM CDMA UMTS EV DO WiMAX or LTE or Zigbee among other possibilities.

In one example the storage may be used for compiling data from various sensors of the robotic device and storing program instructions. The processor may be coupled to the storage and may be configured to control the robotic device based on the program instructions. The processor may also be able to interpret data from the various sensors on the robot. Example sensors may include a camera smoke sensors light sensors radio sensors infrared sensors microphones speakers gyroscope accelerometer distance sensors encoders a camera radar capacitive sensors and touch sensors etc. Example distance sensors include infrared ranging sensors photoelectric distance sensors proximity sensors ultrasonic sensors radar or other types of sensors that may provide outputs used to determine a distance of the robotic device to an object.

The robotic device may also have components or devices that allow the robotic device to interact with an environment of the robotic device . For example the robotic device may have a camera to provide images of a field of view of the environment as well as mechanical actuators such as motors wheels movable arms etc. that enable the robotic device to move or interact with the environment.

In some examples various sensors and devices on the robotic device may be modules. Different modules may be added or removed from the robotic device depending on requirements. For example in a low power situation a robot may have fewer modules to reduce power usages. However additional sensors may be added as needed. To increase an amount of data a robot may be able to collect additional sensors may be added for example.

In some examples the robotic device may be configured to receive a device such as device that includes the processor the storage and the sensors . For example the robotic device may be a robot that has a number of mechanical actuators e.g. a movable base and the robot may be configured to receive a mobile telephone to function as the brains or control components of the robot. The device may be considered a module of the robot. The device may be physically attached to the robot or in communication with the robot. For example a mobile phone may sit on a robot s chest and form an interactive display. The device may provide a robot with sensors a wireless link and processing capabilities for example. The device may allow a user to download new routines for his or her robot from the cloud. For example a laundry folding routine may be stored on the cloud and a user may be able to select this routine using a mobile phone to download the routine from the cloud. When the mobile phone is placed into or coupled to the robot the robot would be able to perform the downloaded action.

In some examples the robotic device may be coupled to a mobile or cellular telephone to provide additional sensing capabilities. The cellular phone may not be physically attached to the robot but may be coupled to the robot wirelessly. For example a low cost robot may omit a direct connection to the internet. This robot may be able to connect to a user s cellular phone via a wireless technology e.g. Bluetooth to be able to access the internet. The robot may be able to access various sensors and communication means of the cellular phone. The robot may not need as many sensors to be physically provided on the robot however the robot may be able to keep the same or similar functionality.

Thus the robotic device may include mechanical robot features and may be configured to receive the device e.g. a mobile phone which can provide additional peripheral components to the robotic device such as any of an accelerometer gyroscope compass GPS camera WiFi connection a touch screen etc. that are included within the device .

In one example the robot may be a toy with only limited mechanical functionality and by connecting the device to the robot the toy robot may now be capable of performing a number of functions with the aid of the device and or the cloud. In this manner the robot or components of a robot can be attached to a mobile phone to transform the mobile phone into a robot e.g. with legs arms that is connected to a server to cause operation functions of the robot.

Any of the robots illustrated in may be configured to operate according to a robot operating system e.g. an operating system designed for specific functions of the robot . A robot operating system may provide libraries and tools e.g. hardware abstraction device drivers visualizers message passing package management etc. to enable robot applications. Examples of robot operating systems include open source software such as ROS robot operating system DROS or ARCOS advanced robotics control operating system as well as proprietary software and other examples also include ROSJAVA. A robot operating system may include publish and subscribe functionality and may also include functionality to control components of the robot such as head tracking base movement e.g. velocity control navigation framework etc.

As shown any of the modules may be interconnected and or may communicate to receive data or instructions from each other so as to provide a specific output or functionality for the robot.

In one example the robot may send data to a cloud for data processing and in another example the robot may receive data from the cloud. The data received from the cloud may be in many different forms. The received data may be a processed form of data the robot sent to the cloud. The received data may also come from sources other than the robot. For example the cloud may have access to other sensors other robots and the internet.

The cloud may receive input from several robots. Data from each robot may be complied into a larger data set. For example the robot may take a picture of an object and upload the picture to the cloud . An object recognition program in the cloud may be configured to identify the object in the picture and provide data to all the robots connected to the cloud about the recognized object as well as possibly about other characteristics e.g. metadata of the recognized object such as a location size weight color etc. Thus every robot may be able to know attributes of an object in a photo uploaded by the robot .

The robots and may perform any number of actions with an area people other robots etc. In one example each robot and has WiFi or other network based connectivity and will upload publish data to the cloud that can then be shared with any other robot. In this manner each robot and shares experiences with each other to enable learned behaviors. Each robot and will have access to real time up to date data. Overall the robots and may be configured to share data that is collected to enable faster adaptation such that each robot and can build upon a learned experience of a previous robot.

The database may be accessible by all robots through the cloud or alternatively directly accessible by all robots without communication through the cloud . The database may thus be a shared knowledge base stored in the cloud . In some examples robots may share learned behaviors through the cloud . The cloud may have a server that stores robot learned activities or behaviors resulting in a shared knowledge base of behaviors and heuristics for object interactions e.g. a robot app store .

Thus within examples the robots and may share information through the cloud and may access the database . The robots and may access the cloud to perform any number of functions or methods described herein.

In one example a robot may interact with the cloud to determine the status of a component. For example the cloud may receive information from multiple robots including logs of statuses and user interactions. In some examples automated processes within the cloud or the robot may be used to determine the status of the component.

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein the block diagram shows functionality and operation of one possible implementation of present embodiments. In this regard each block may represent a module a segment or a portion of program code which includes one or more instructions executable by a processor or computing device for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. The program code may be stored on any type of computer readable medium for example such as a storage device including a disk or hard drive. The computer readable medium may include non transitory computer readable medium for example such as computer readable media that stores data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and Random Access Memory RAM . The computer readable medium may also include non transitory media such as secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable media may also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. The computer readable medium may be considered a computer readable storage medium for example or a tangible storage device.

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein each block in may represent circuitry that is wired to perform the specific logical functions in the process.

At block the method includes triggering an action of a component of a robotic device. In one example the component may be a sensor receiving information from an environment in which the robotic device resides. In another example the component may be a sensor on a robotic device monitoring performance of the robotic device or the environment. In yet another example the component may be an actuator of the robotic device.

In one instance the triggering of the action may occur over time in order to identify a performance of the component over time. For example the action of the component may be prompted at predetermined intervals. In other examples the action of the component may be triggered by a server monitoring a status of the component over time. In one example the triggering of the action may occur upon initialization of the robotic device. The robotic device may perform the action when the robotic device is powered on for example.

At block the method includes responsively receiving information associated with the action of the component of the robotic device. In some examples the information associated with the component of the robotic device may be received from a sensor of the robotic device. In other examples the information associated with the component may be received from a sensor that is not a part of the robotic device. The information associated with the component may include a temperature amount of light amount of power draw e.g. amount of current or amount of wattage battery life audio information e.g. a decibel level or audio clip visual information such as images videos etc. among other possibilities.

In one instance the robotic device may transmit information associated with the component at one time or any combination of times such as a time prior to the action of the component a time during the action of the component or a time subsequent to the action of the component. In another instance the robotic device may continuously transmit the information associated with the component while a database may record information associated with the component at instances in time surrounding or during the action of the component.

At block the method includes a computing system having a processor and a memory comparing the information with calibration data comprising information derived from data received from a pool of robotic devices utilizing same or similar components. The pool may include one or more than one robotic devices. The computing system may have access to the calibration data. In some examples the calibration data may be derived from data received from other robotic devices utilizing the same or a similar component as the component of the robotic device. For example the computing system may be a computing module of the robotic device another given robotic device of the pool of robotic devices or a server separate from the robotic devices e.g. a server in a cloud with which the pool of robotic devices is connected via a network that has access to a database comprising the calibration data.

In one example the calibration data may comprise information received from the robotic device in response to a previous action of the component and or historical information received from other robotic devices of the pool of robotic devices. The comparison may involve performing a regression test to identify regressions or changes in a performance of the component due to a passage of time or changing conditions of an environment in which the robotic device resides operates or is configured to operate e.g. changes in lighting temperature floor surface etc. . For example the action of the component may include capturing an image of a predetermined object using a camera of the robotic device. The image may be compared with other images of the object previously captured to identify regressions or errors between the images.

In another example the calibration data may include real time data from the pool of robotic devices and the calibration data may be modified continuously based on the real time data. Thus the calibration data may be adjusted to account for changing conditions experienced by the pool of robotic devices.

In yet another example the pool of robotic devices may include a fleet of similar robotic devices operating in an area with similar functions. The calibration data may include information received from the pool of robotic devices. In some examples the comparison may include a statistical analysis of the information received from the similar robotic devices to determine whether a performance component is within an acceptable limit of performances of the same or similar components of the similar robotic devices.

At block the method includes determining a status of the component based on the comparison. In some examples the status may include information associated with a performance of the component of the robotic device. For example the status of the component may be determined relative to performances of same or similar components utilized by the pool of robotic devices.

Optionally at block the status may be sent to the robotic device or another entity. In another example the status may be a flag indicating the component or the robotic device is prone to more errors. In one instance based on the flag an alert indicating the status may be generated and provided to another entity e.g. another robotic device an operator of the pool of robotic devices a technician etc. based on the flag.

In an example in which an image received from an optical sensor of the robotic device includes regressions with respect to previous images within the calibration data the status of the component may indicate that the optical sensor needs to be adjusted. For example an object in the image may have shifted or be out of focus and the status may indicate the optical sensor needs to be adjusted accordingly.

In some examples the method may be performed by the robotic device. For example the robotic device may query a server for the calibration data and receive from the server the calibration data. The calibration data may include nominal values or averages associated with components of the pool of robotic devices. A computing system of the robotic device may compare the information associated with the component with the calibration data and determine a status of the component. In one instance identities of other robotic devices of the pool of robotic devices may be secured in the server and not included within the calibration data sent to the robotic device. For example the calibration data may indicate the pool of robotic devices includes anonymous robotic devices. Thus the calibration data may in some examples be anonymous data.

In other examples the method may be performed by a server e.g. a server in a cloud . The information received from the robotic device may be stored in a database. The database may include historical and or real time data from other robotic devices of the pool of robotic devices. A computing system of the server in the cloud may receive the information associated with the component of the robotic device compare the information with the calibration data and determine the status of the component. In one example information associating an identity of the robotic device and the information associated with the component of the robotic device may be secured within the server. Thus in some examples information associated with the identity of the robotic device may be private and not be distributed to other robotic devices.

For example the robotic device may determine a sensor value for a sensor at block . In one instance the sensor may be a device capable of determining a temperature. As an example the robotic device may determine a temperature value of seventy six degrees.

Additionally sensor values for same or similar components of a pool of one or more robotic devices may be determined at block . In one example a population mean e.g. seventy eight degrees may be determined based on sensor values from other sensors of the pool of robotic devices. However in other examples other statistical measures e.g. median mode etc. may be used for determining a nominal value for the sensor. In some instances the information from the pool of robotic devices may be real time data. In other instances the information from the pool of robotic devices may be historical data stored in a database.

In one example the pool of robotic devices may be in a location that is the same location or near to a location of the robotic device . Thus the information from sensor values of the pool of robotic devices and the population mean may be similar to data which may be expected to be received from the robotic device .

At decision block the population mean for the pool of robotic devices may be compared to the sensor value of the robotic device . In one instance an absolute value of a difference between the sensor value and the population mean may be compared to a threshold e.g. a threshold of 1 degree . In other instances the comparison may be based on other calculations. Similarly the threshold may be varied based on historical information or real time data associated with the pool of robotic devices or as configured by a user or technician.

Based on the decision at block when the absolute value of the difference is greater than the threshold the sensor of the robotic device may be modified at block . For example an offset of the sensor may be calibrated or modified such that the sensor value is substantially consistent with the population mean of the pool of robotic devices . In some examples the modification of the offset may be performed by the robotic device . In other examples the modification of the offset may be performed in a device that the robotic device is configured to communicate with via cloud computing. In one instance the value of the offset may be the difference between the sensor value and the population mean. In another instance the offset may be a curve to account for sensors that may be miscalibrated at extremes e.g. very high or very low temperatures . In some examples the sensor value and an amount of offset applied to the sensor may be stored in a database at block .

Based on the decision at block when the absolute value of the difference is less than the threshold no modification to the sensor value may be made and the sensor value may be stored in the database at block .

In an alternative embodiment not shown if it is determined that the sensor value is outside of a second threshold a communication to a host may be triggered. The communication may indicate that a part replacement or a repair call is warranted for example.

In some examples rather than requesting a replacement sensor the robotic device may self calibrate based on information from the pool of robotic devices . Additionally the ability of the robotic device to self calibrate may reduce an amount of manual tuning and or diagnostics required by a technician. The method may also be applicable to other components such as motors actuators vision systems positioning systems or other components of the robotic device . Thus the example is not meant to be limited to sensors.

Initially at block the method includes initialize a robotic device. In some examples initialization may refer to a time when the robotic device is activated a time when the robotic device is powered on after having been powered down or a time when the robotic device has been initialized after maintenance has been performed on the robotic device. However the method may also be applicable to other times and the example is not meant to be limiting.

At block the method includes perform a predetermined movement of an actuator of the robotic device. In one instance the robotic device may make a few moves e.g. move forward right backward etc. according to a predetermined schedule. In another instance the movement may involve exercising a movable arm associated with the robotic device.

At block the method includes receive information associated with a movement of the actuator. For example a sensor associated with the actuator may receive information during and or around a time when then movement of the actuator occurs.

At block the method includes compare the information with calibration data. In one example the information may be compared with a set of calibration data on a server to identify if the robotic device has any problems e.g. miscalibrations or malfunctions . The data on the server may include historical operational data collected from a population of robotic devices such that the server may determine baseline operational data. The baseline operational data may correspond to an expected average range of performance based on data collected from multiple robotic devices. In one instance if the robotic device moves to the right but does not traverse a certain distance over a certain time period a problem may be identified with a wheel.

At block the method includes determine a status of the actuator. For example a server may identify any problems or notify a user of a malfunctioning robotic device. The status may be associated with performance of the component. In some examples a display of the status may be provided.

In one example the display may also include component statistics . The statistics may be associated with performance of the component of the robotic device. Optionally the statistics may also include a graphical indicator illustrating a relationship of the component to an average value e.g. an upward pointing triangle may indicate the statistic is greater than the average value a downward pointing triangle may indicate the statistic is less than the average value etc. . The average value may be determined based on real time data from the pool of robotic devices and or historical data associated with the pool of robotic devices.

In some examples the display may be accessed via a web interface connected to a server in a cloud. In other examples the display may be provided on a display associated with the robotic device and configured to receive information from the server in the cloud. In one instance the display may further include information indicating on screen alerts based on the status of the component as determined by the server in the cloud not shown .

Although the systems and methods have been described with respect to a given component of a robotic device in some examples the systems and methods may provide information associated with a general health for a plurality of robotic devices e.g. individual health information for each of a fleet of network connected robotic devices . In one instance a server may combine information associated with a performance of a plurality of components of a given robotic device with respect to performance of the plurality of components by the fleet of robotic devices to determine a general health of the given robotic device.

Additionally although the systems and methods have been described with respect to robotic devices the systems and methods may also be applicable to monitoring of any cloud connected devices e.g. cars phones tablets etc. . Given a fleet of similar devices publishing information associated with components of the devices to a cloud a central computing system in the cloud may be capable of monitoring status and health of the components or the devices based on historical logs of data associated with the components devices and or real time data received from the devices.

It should be understood that arrangements described herein are for purposes of example only. As such those skilled in the art will appreciate that other arrangements and other elements e.g. machines interfaces functions orders and groupings of functions etc. can be used instead and some elements may be omitted altogether according to the desired results. Further many of the elements that are described are functional entities that may be implemented as discrete or distributed components or in conjunction with other components in any suitable combination and location.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope being indicated by the following claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

