---

title: Method, software and apparatus for performing actions on a wireless device using action lists and versioning
abstract: A system and method for performing actions on a wireless device using action lists and versioning. The system includes receiving, over a network, a remote action list version number, the remote action list version number associated with a remote action list containing an instruction for the wireless device. The system further includes determining whether the remote action list version number is different from a local action list version number. The system also includes sending, over a network, a request for the remote action list in response to determining the remote action list version number is different from the local action list version number. Also, the system includes receiving, over a network, the remote action list.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09591428&OS=09591428&RS=09591428
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09591428
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160608
---
The present application for patent is a Continuation of patent application Ser. No. 14 152 412 entitled METHOD SOFTWARE AND APPARATUS FOR PERFORMING ACTIONS ON A WIRELESS DEVICE USING ACTION LISTS AND VERSIONING filed Jan. 10 2014 pending which is a Continuation of patent application Ser. No. 10 975 973 entitled METHOD SOFTWARE AND APPARATUS FOR PERFORMING ACTIONS ON A WIRELESS DEVICE USING ACTION LISTS AND VERSIONING filed Oct. 27 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 626 146 and which claim the benefit to Provisional Application No. 60 515 823 filed Oct. 29 2003 each of which are assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present invention generally relates to wireless networks and computer communications across wireless networks. More particularly the invention relates to the updating of the version of an application or data and or performing actions on a wireless device when a download server has a more recent action list version than what is contained on the wireless device.

Wireless devices such as cellular telephones communicate packets including voice and data over a wireless network. Cellular telephones themselves are being manufactured with increased computing capabilities and are becoming tantamount to personal computers and hand held personal digital assistants PDAs . Some wireless devices such as select cellular telephones may have an installed application programming computer platform that allows software developers to create software applications that operate on the wireless device.

It is anticipated that systems and methods will be developed to download applications to a wireless device. Accordingly it is desirable to have a system and method by which applications and data on a wireless device may be updated efficiently and also a mechanism to identify actions that should be performed on a wireless device taking into account the environment constraints and impacts of transferring information in a wireless network.

In one embodiment a method of handling instructions for a wireless device comprises receiving over a network a remote action list version number the remote action list version number associated with a remote action list containing an instruction for the wireless device. Such embodiment also includes determining whether the remote action list version number is different from a local action list version number. Such embodiment also includes sending over a network a request for the remote action list in response to determining the remote action list version number is different from the local action list version number. In addition such embodiment includes receiving over a network the remote action list.

In one embodiment a method of handling instructions for a wireless device comprises storing remote from a wireless device a remote action list containing an instruction associated with the wireless device the remote action list having an associated remote action list version number. Such embodiment also includes sending over a network the remote action list version number associated with the remote action list. Such embodiment also includes receiving over a network a request for the remote action list the request for the remote action list generated in response to determining the remote action list version number is different from an action list version number stored at the wireless device. In addition such embodiment includes sending over a network the remote action list in response to determining the remote action list version number is different from a local action list version.

In one embodiment a method of handling instructions for a wireless device comprises storing remote from a wireless device a remote action list containing an instruction associated with the wireless device the remote action list having an associated remote action list version number. Such embodiment also includes sending from the wireless device over a network a request for the remote action list version number associated with the remote action list. Such embodiment also includes receiving at a server over a network the request for the remote action list version number associated with the remote action list. Such embodiment also includes sending from a server over a network the remote action list version number associated with the remote action list. Such embodiment also includes receiving at the wireless device over a network the remote action list version number associated with the remote action list. Such embodiment also includes determining at the wireless device whether the remote action list version number is different from a local action list version number. Such embodiment also includes sending from the wireless device over a network a request for the remote action list in response to determining the remote action list version number is different from the local action list version number. Such embodiment also includes receiving at a server over a network the request for the remote action list. Such embodiment also includes sending from a server over a network the remote action list in response to determining the remote action list version number is different from the local action list version number. Such embodiment also includes receiving at the wireless device over a network the remote action list. Such embodiment also includes executing at the wireless device the instructions contained in the remote action list. In addition such embodiment also includes replacing at the wireless device the local action list version number with the remote action list version number.

In one embodiment a method of handling instructions for a wireless device comprises maintaining an action list associated with at least one wireless device group the action list containing at least one instruction for a wireless device the wireless device group capable of having a plurality of wireless devices as members. Such embodiment also includes generating a remote action list for a particular wireless device by identifying at least one wireless device group for which the wireless device is a member and by aggregating the action lists associated with the at least one wireless device group. In addition such embodiment includes generating a remote action list version number associated with the remote action list the remote action list version number for use by the wireless device to determine whether the remote action list version number is different from a local action list version number.

In one embodiment a wireless device capable of handling instructions comprises logic configured to receive over a network a remote action list version number the remote action list version number associated with a remote action list containing an instruction for the wireless device. Such embodiment also includes logic configured to determine whether the remote action list version number is different from a local action list version number. Such embodiment also includes logic configured to send over a network a request for the remote action list in response to determining the remote action list version number is different from the local action list version number. In addition such embodiment includes logic configured to receive over a network the remote action list.

In one embodiment a server for handling instructions for a wireless device comprises logic configured to store remote from a wireless device a remote action list containing an instruction associated with the wireless device the remote action list having an associated remote action list version number. Such embodiment also includes logic configured to send over a network the remote action list version number associated with the remote action list. Such embodiment also includes logic configured to receive over a network a request for the remote action list the request for the remote action list generated in response to determining the remote action list version number is different from an action list version number stored at the wireless device. In addition such embodiment includes logic configured to send over a network the remote action list in response to determining the remote action list version number is different from a local action list version.

In one embodiment a system for handling instructions for a wireless device comprises a wireless device and a server. The server includes logic configured to store remote from a wireless device a remote action list containing an instruction associated with the wireless device the remote action list having an associated remote action list version number. The server also includes logic configured to receive over a network a request for the remote action list version number associated with the remote action list. The server also includes logic configured to send over a network the remote action list version number associated with the remote action list. The server also includes logic configured to receive over a network a request for the remote action list. In addition the server includes logic configured to send over a network the remote action list in response to determining the remote action list version number is different from a local action list version number. The wireless device includes logic configured to send over a network the request for the remote action list version number associated with the remote action list. The wireless device also includes logic configured to receive over a network the remote action list version number associated with the remote action list. The wireless device also includes logic configured to determine whether the remote action list version number is different from the local action list version number. The wireless device also includes logic configured to send over a network the request for the remote action list in response to determining the remote action list version number is different from the local action list version number. The wireless device also includes logic configured to receive over a network the remote action list. The wireless device also includes logic configured to execute the instructions contained in the remote action list. In addition the wireless device includes logic configured to replace the local action list version number with the remote action list version number.

In one embodiment a server for handling instructions for a wireless device comprises logic configured to maintain an action list associated with at least one wireless device group the action list containing at least one instruction for a wireless device the wireless device group capable of having a plurality of wireless devices as members. Such embodiment also includes logic configured to generate a remote action list for a particular wireless device by identifying at least one wireless device group for which the wireless device is a member and by aggregating the action lists associated with the at least one wireless device group. In addition such embodiment includes logic configured to generate a remote action list version number associated with the remote action list the remote action list version number for use by the wireless device to determine whether the remote action list version number is different from a local action list version number.

In one embodiment a computer program embodied on a computer readable medium the computer program capable of handling instructions for a wireless device the computer program comprising code operable to receive over a network a remote action list version number the remote action list version number associated with a remote action list containing an instruction for the wireless device. Such embodiment also includes code operable to determine whether the remote action list version number is different from a local action list version number. Such embodiment also includes code operable to send over a network a request for the remote action list in response to determining the remote action list version number is different from the local action list version number. In addition such embodiment includes code operable to receive over a network the remote action list.

In one embodiment a computer program embodied on a computer readable medium the computer program capable of handling instructions for a wireless device the computer program comprising code operable to store remote from a wireless device a remote action list containing an instruction associated with the wireless device the remote action list having an associated remote action list version number. Such embodiment also includes code operable to send over a network the remote action list version number associated with the remote action list. Such embodiment also includes code operable to receive over a network a request for the remote action list the request for the remote action list generated in response to determining the remote action list version number is different from an action list version number stored at the wireless device. In addition such embodiment includes code operable to send over a network the remote action list in response to determining the remote action list version number is different from a local action list version.

In one embodiment a computer program embodied on a computer readable medium the computer program capable of handling instructions for a wireless device the computer program comprising code operable to maintain an action list associated with at least one wireless device group the action list containing at least one instruction for a wireless device the wireless device group capable of having a plurality of wireless devices as members. Such embodiment also includes code operable to generate a remote action list for a particular wireless device by identifying at least one wireless device group for which the wireless device is a member and by aggregating the action lists associated with the at least one wireless device group. In addition such embodiment includes code operable to generate a remote action list version number associated with the remote action list the remote action list version number for use by the wireless device to determine whether the remote action list version number is different from a local action list version number.

In one embodiment a wireless device capable of handling instructions comprising means for receiving over a network a remote action list version number the remote action list version number associated with a remote action list containing an instruction for the wireless device. Such embodiment also including means for determining whether the remote action list version number is different from a local action list version number. Such embodiment also including means for sending over a network a request for the remote action list in response to determining the remote action list version number is different from the local action list version number. Such embodiment also including means for receiving over a network the remote action list.

In one embodiment a server for handling instructions for a wireless device comprises means for storing remote from a wireless device a remote action list containing an instruction associated with the wireless device the remote action list having an associated remote action list version number. Such embodiment also includes means for sending over a network the remote action list version number associated with the remote action list. Such embodiment also includes means for receiving over a network a request for the remote action list the request for the remote action list generated in response to determining the remote action list version number is different from an action list version number stored at the wireless device. In addition such embodiment includes means for sending over a network the remote action list in response to determining the remote action list version number is different from a local action list version.

In one embodiment a system for handling instructions for a wireless device comprises a wireless device and a server. The server includes means for storing remote from a wireless device a remote action list containing an instruction associated with the wireless device the remote action list having an associated remote action list version number. The server also includes means for receiving over a network a request for the remote action list version number associated with the remote action list. The server also includes means for sending over a network the remote action list version number associated with the remote action list. The server also includes means for receiving over a network a request for the remote action list. In addition the server includes means for sending over a network the remote action list in response to determining the remote action list version number is different from a local action list version number. The wireless device includes means for sending over a network the request for the remote action list version number associated with the remote action list. The wireless device also includes means for receiving over a network the remote action list version number associated with the remote action list. The wireless device also includes means for determining whether the remote action list version number is different from the local action list version number. The wireless device also includes means for sending over a network the request for the remote action list in response to determining the remote action list version number is different from the local action list version number. The wireless device also includes means for receiving over a network the remote action list. The wireless device also includes means for executing the instructions contained in the remote action list. In addition the wireless device also includes means for replacing the local action list version number with the remote action list version number.

In one embodiment a server for handling instructions for a wireless device comprises means for maintaining an action list associated with at least one wireless device group the action list containing at least one instruction for a wireless device the wireless device group capable of having a plurality of wireless devices as members. Such embodiment also includes means for generating a remote action list for a particular wireless device by identifying at least one wireless device group for which the wireless device is a member and by aggregating the action lists associated with the at least one wireless device group. In addition such embodiment includes means for generating a remote action list version number associated with the remote action list the remote action list version number for use by the wireless device to determine whether the remote action list version number is different from a local action list version number.

Systems and methods are anticipated that provide for the downloading of software applications to a wireless device. Software applications can come pre loaded at the time the wireless device is manufactured or the user may later request that additional programs be downloaded over cellular telecommunication carrier networks where the programs are executable on the wireless device. As a result users of wireless devices can customize their wireless devices with programs such as games printed media stock updates news or any other type of information or program available for download from application download servers through the wireless network.

In one scenario if the user of the wireless device desires to download and use a software application or other data using a wireless network the user will typically either call a service provider or contact the service provider through other means such as through an Internet access and the service provider will either transmit the application or data to the wireless device across the wireless network or allow the user access a network site where the application or data is downloadable or accessible. To connect to the application download server the wireless device bridges a communication connection to the wireless network such as a cellular network and then attempts to contact an application download server where the desired software application is resident. Once the wireless device contacts the application download server an initial connection is made and the application download server determines what applications and data are available to the wireless device and sends the appropriate information such as a menu for display on the wireless device so the user can learn of the available applications and data. After access is provided to the downloadable applications the user of the wireless device can download or any of the available applications or data.

A problem that may arise is that the version of the application or data that the wireless device downloads to be resident thereupon can be updated or altered at the application download server and the wireless device resident application or data has no simple manner to be likewise updated. The update problem is exacerbated as the wireless device does not always communicate with the application download server every time the wireless device bridges a communication to the wireless network. Because the communication connection from the wireless device to the application download server can be expensive especially in a cellular network it is otherwise very expensive for the wireless device to periodically connect to the application download server and check for more recent version of application or software. Furthermore while each wireless device resident application or data can be checked against its parallel version resident on the download server every time a connection is made to the download server such checking would lengthen the connection time and cause more expense to the wireless device owner.

Accordingly systems and methods consistent with the present invention include updating applications and data resident on a wireless device with the most recent version stored on a download server that the wireless device is connected to. Such systems and methods should be able to determine if more recent versions of the wireless device resident applications and data are present on the download server without significantly lengthening the connection duration in order to effect a full comparison of all wireless device resident applications and data. It is thus to the provision of such a system and method of checking and updating wireless device resident applications and data that the present invention is primarily directed.

It is an object to provide systems and methods whereby the datasets such as applications information and other data resident on a wireless device can be updated with the most recent version of the dataset resident on a download server that the wireless device is connected to. The present invention allows a rapid determination as to whether more recent versions of the wireless device resident datasets are present on the download server and such determination does not significantly lengthen the connection duration between the wireless device and download server. The present invention thus provides an advantage in that it gives a wireless device the ability to quickly execute a full comparison of dataset versions with a download server and download any newer version of a wireless device resident dataset.

Furthermore as wireless devices become more complex and sophisticated it is desirable to keep the wireless device up to date with actions that need to be performed. For example an action may include upgrade an application delete an application download certain data disable an application. An action can include modifying the licensing terms associated with an application for example to upgrade the number of uses for a game application from 10 uses to 100. It will be recognized by those skilled in the art that an action can be any type of instruction s that can be performed or initiated by a device. The action may require the wireless device to execute the action within the domain of wireless device or it may require the wireless device to request an action from another server such as an application download server or any combination of such actions.

In addition it is beneficial that there be a mechanism to be able to store all the actions that needs to be performed by the wireless device without having to send a message to the wireless device immediately to perform the action. A wireless device environment does provide constraints that are not typically contained in the wire based devices. For example a wireless device may need to connect to a server. Depending on the service and technology the wireless uses this may require a separate call or connection.

Requiring a message to be sent or to establish connection can have negative impacts to the wireless subscriber such as the user of the wireless device may have a plan based on amount of time used. If a call or connection is initiated by the network it could impact the amount of minutes available to the user. Also there is processing overhead associated with making a connection and because the wireless device is very sensitive to network usage and processing efficiency it is preferable to limit the amount of overhead associated with establishing a connection to the wireless device.

With reference to the figures in which like numerals represent like elements throughout illustrates an embodiment of a system for providing subscribed software applications to one or more wireless devices such as cellular telephone in communication across a wireless network with at least one network server such as application download server that selectively downloads or provided access to software applications or other data to the wireless devices across a wireless communication portal or other data access to the wireless network . As shown here the wireless device can be a cellular telephone a personal digital assistant a pager which is shown here as a two way text pager or even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communication portal and may otherwise have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The system can thus be performed on any form of remote computer module including a wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards access terminals personal computers access terminals telephones without a display or keypad or any combination or sub combination thereof.

The application download server is shown here on a local server side network with other computer elements in communication with the wireless network such as a database with stored applications and data that contains software applications and data that are accessible and downloadable to the wireless devices . There is also shown other network servers such as server and stand alone network server . The server and can be application or data download servers or other types of servers that interact with the wireless devices as are known in the art. The servers may have software applications patches files keys graphics data compression algorithms and any type of general data collectively referred to hereinafter as datasets resident thereupon that can be accessed by the wireless devices as is further described herein. It should be noted that server side functions as described herein can be performed on one server such as application download server . Further a computer server side computer platform can provide separate services and processes to the wireless devices across the wireless network .

The wireless device such as cellular telephone has a computer platform that can receive and execute software applications and display data transmitted from the application download server or other network servers . The computer platform may also include an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The computer platform also includes a local database that can hold the software applications file or data not actively used in memory such as the software applications or downloaded from the application download server . The local database is typically comprised of one or more flash memory cells but can be any secondary or tertiary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EPROM EEPROM optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

The wireless device such as cellular telephone can access and download many types of applications such as games and stock monitors or simply data such as news and sports related data. The downloaded data can be immediately displayed on the display or stored in the local database when not in use. The software applications can be treated as a regular software application resident on the wireless device and the user of the wireless device can selectively upload stored resident applications from the local database to memory for execution on the API . The end user of the wireless device can also selectively delete a software application from the local database whereby other applications and data can be downloaded into the cleared storage space.

A group manager server may be used to manage actions lists and action versions associated with the wireless devices . In one embodiment actions are defined to be performed on a wireless device. These actions may be requested by a carrier application developer network operator or other entity desiring to impact the environment of the wireless device. While not shown a separate interface to the group manager server may exist so that actions for a wireless device may be entered into the group manager.

The group manager may implement a group scheme to track the actions associated with a group of wireless devices. For example a set of wireless devices may belong to a company and a group can be established for those wireless devices belonging to that company. If the company wants a particular application distributed to all the wireless devices of the company the group manager may be configured in such a way as to allow the action of Install Application xxx to all wireless devices in a group.

The wireless device may be part of multiple groups. For example it may be part of a company group it may be part of a device type a specific model of wireless device group etc. The definition of groups can be arbitrary so a group may be established by any criteria desired.

The group manager server generates the action list associated with a wireless device. When the action list changes the group manager server also changes the action list version so that the wireless device can check the version of its current action list to quickly determine if additional actions need to be performed.

When using groups to help manage the action lists associated with a wireless device hashing algorithms based on the groups the wireless device is associated with may be used to simplify the creation of action lists. Alternatively while this may impact the processing and storage efficiency the group manager may also simply store the action list associated with each of the wireless device instead of using a hashing or other algorithm to help manage actions associated with each wireless device.

The group manager is connected to an application download server so that it may transfer the action lists and the current action list version associated with a wireless device.

The following is an example of delineating groups and using action lists. Assume Device ID 111 is part of Group 1 Group 2 and Group 111 but Device ID 222 is only part of Group 2. A combined group action list may be developed by groups that include the following 

When the Action list for Device ID 111 is developed knowing that it is part of Groups 1 2 and 111 all the actions associated with those groups are compiled for the Device ID 111 action list. Note that a group may be defined containing only that Device s ID e.g. Group 111 is a group on one containing only Device 111 so that actions may be defined solely to that device. The action list for Device ID 222 is developed only by pulling out those actions associated with Group 2 and its individual group if any actions were listed since that is the only group it is a part of that has any actions associated with it.

Action lists as described above include actions to be performed by the wireless device. These may include any actions that the wireless device may initiate. An example of an action list for a specific device is in Table 2 

Note that Table 2 only includes a limited number of actions and is not intended to indicate the complete number of actions that may be performed. Note that action lists may also include data such as Application 3 having the data of price type and Price Base Type indicating to upgrade the application to 100 uses . While Table 2 only refers to applications any instruction that can be recognized by the wireless device may be included in the action lists including instructions that use data or any file type.

Furthermore action lists and the described embodiments allow actions to be performed by the wireless device automatically without the user needing to initiate any actions. It may be preferable to indicate to the user that actions are occurring but that is an implementation decision.

With reference to the computer platform of the wireless device such as cellular telephone will have a data or file structure resident thereon. The category Files within it the API file called BREW representing the API in the platform in this case the BREW API developed by QUALCOMM Incorporated and BREW contains an applications file with a specific chess game held in a chess folder . All of these files can be versioned wherein updates to the data in each file give the file a different version to identify what changes have been made in the data. The server such as application download server will keep its own resident copy of the application and data files such that a wireless device contacting the server can download copies of the applications and data to selectively overwrite the wireless device resident copy.

The present invention allows the creation of summary files of the versions of some or all datasets resident on the wireless device or download server such as application download server . As shown in the download server preferably maintains a download server dataset update summary file and the wireless device will maintain wireless device dataset version summary file that contain or reference some or all files on the server or computer platform respectively.

The system thus selectively updates the versions of stored datasets on a wireless device attempting to communicate with at least one download server application download server across the wireless network through the computer platform of the wireless device comparing the version of each specific resident dataset listed in the resident dataset version summary file with the version of the downloadable dataset resident on the download server preferably stored in a download server dataset update summary to thereby determine if the version of the wireless device resident dataset is different from the version of the download server resident dataset. And upon determining the version of the wireless device resident dataset is different from the version of the download server resident dataset the computer platform of the wireless device can download the download server resident dataset to overwrite the old version of the application or data resident and be executable on the wireless device . Other methods can be used on the download server to provide version information to wireless devices such as a header for each dataset file a direct comparison of the dataset after a predetermined duration since download or a command can be present in the wireless device download server handshake that informs the wireless device to compare a specific dataset to determine if the wireless device has the most recent version.

The download server dataset update summary file can identify the versions of files or datasets resident on the download server such as a graphics data that is present in a welcome screen file device drivers such as a graphics driver file and the chess file . The wireless device dataset version summary file has parallel files to those resident on the download server dataset update summary file and can compare each version of the datasets through a simple file comparison between the download server dataset update summary file and the wireless device dataset version summary file and locate different version numbers. The summary files and are shown here as having a greater number indicating a more recent version of the dataset. Other systems and method could be used to indicate the version difference as would be known in the art such as an alphanumeric or other symbolic system that is predefined such that the computer platform of the wireless device can determine if an individual download server resident dataset is a newer version than the wireless device resident dataset.

In the structure shown in if a version number of the download server resident dataset is greater than the version number of the wireless device resident dataset then the computer platform of the wireless device will download the newer version of the dataset from the download server . After it has been determined that a newer dataset version is on the download server the computer platform of the wireless device can prompt the user of the wireless device to communicate with the download server to download the different version of the download server resident dataset to be executable on the wireless device. The prompting of the user to make the communication may be important in certain circumstances such as if the owner of the wireless device will be billed for the communication connection. Otherwise upon the determination that the version of the wireless device resident dataset is different from the version of the download server resident dataset the computer platform of the wireless device can automatically download the different download server resident dataset to overwrite the wireless device resident dataset.

The specific process executing on the wireless device such as cellular telephone is shown in the flowchart of . The wireless device bridges a connection to an application download server or other network server as shown in step and then determine whether there is a download server version dataset update summary file present as shown by decision . If the download server keeps track of changes to resident dataset versions in a manner other than an update summary file then decision would be made in accord with the other method. If there is not a download server dataset update summary file present at decision or other version comparison method present then the connection to the application download server is otherwise completed and the version update process is terminated. If there is a download server dataset update summary file present at decision then the download server dataset update summary file is retrieved by the wireless device as shown at step and the first parallel dataset version for which the wireless device has a resident copy of is fetched as shown at step .

A determination is then made as to whether the download server resident dataset is a more recent version than the wireless device resident dataset as shown at decision . If the download server dataset is not more recent at decision then the process returns to step to fetch the next download server resident dataset version. If the download server resident dataset is a more recent version at decision then the wireless device downloads to the computer platform the more recent version of the dataset from the download server as shown at step . A check is made to determine if the more recent version of the dataset was downloaded as shown at decision . If the more recent version of the dataset was not downloaded at decision then the user of the wireless device is informed of the failure to download the more recent dataset version as shown at step and the process continues to decision . Otherwise if the more recent dataset version was downloaded at decision then a determination is made as to whether there are any further datasets resident on the download server that are parallel to datasets resident on the wireless device as shown at decision .

If there are more parallel datasets on the download server at decision then the process returns to step wherein another parallel download server resident dataset is fetched. If there are no further parallel download server resident datasets present at decision then the downloaded datasets are installed and integrated on the computer platform of the wireless device as shown at step and the interconnection between the wireless device and application download server is begun as shown at step . The interconnection between the wireless device and download server typically provides a menu or other data connectivity therebetween. After the interconnection is begun at step the version update process is terminated.

The system thus provides a method for selectively updating the versions of stored datasets on a wireless device including communicating from the wireless device to the download server across the wireless network comparing at the computer platform of the wireless device the version of each specific resident dataset listed in the resident dataset version summary file with the version of the downloadable dataset resident on the download server and determining if the version of the wireless device resident dataset is different from the version of the download server resident dataset based upon the comparison. The method may further include downloading the different download server resident dataset to the computer platform of the wireless device from the download server to be executable on the wireless device upon determining the version of the wireless device resident dataset is different from the version of the download server resident dataset.

If the download server stores the record indicating the version of the download server resident dataset in a version update file the step of comparing at the computer platform of the wireless device the version of each specific resident dataset listed in the resident dataset version summary file with the version of the downloadable dataset resident on the download server is comparing the update summary file of the download server to the version summary file of the wireless device to thereby determine if the versions of the wireless device resident datasets are different from the versions of the download server resident datasets. The method can also include either prompting the user of the wireless device to communicate with the download server to download the different version of the download server resident dataset to be executable on the wireless device or automatically downloading the different download server resident dataset to the computer platform of the wireless device upon determining the download server resident dataset is a different version than the wireless device resident dataset.

The invention further includes a wireless device including a computer platform with at least one file resident thereon where the wireless device in selective communication to one or more network servers across a wireless network with each network server selectively downloading datasets to the wireless device . Upon the wireless device attempting to communicate with a download server across the wireless network the computer platform of the wireless device compares the version of each specific resident dataset listed in the resident dataset version summary file with the version of the downloadable dataset resident on the download server to thereby determine if the version of the wireless device resident dataset is different from the version of the download server resident dataset. Preferably upon determining the version of the wireless device resident dataset is different from the version of the download server resident dataset the computer platform of the wireless device downloads the download server resident dataset. The computer platform of the wireless device can prompt the user of the wireless device to communicate with the download server to download the different version of the download server resident dataset or automatically download the different download server resident dataset to be executable on the wireless device .

In one embodiment with an update summary file resident on the download server the computer platform of the wireless device compares the update summary file of the download server to the version summary file of the wireless device to thereby determine if the versions of the wireless device resident datasets are different from the versions of the download server resident datasets.

The present invention includes a program resident in a computer readable medium where the program directs a wireless device having a computer platform to perform the inventive steps of the method. The computer readable medium can be the memory of the computer platform of the cellular telephone or other wireless device or can be in a local database such as local database of the cellular telephone . Further the computer readable medium can be in a secondary storage media that is loadable onto a wireless device computer platform such as a magnetic disk or tape optical disk hard disk flash memory or other storage media as is known in the art.

In one embodiment the wireless device indicates what groups that it is a part of. The application download server then determines via internal processing or using a group manager server the action list version associated with the groups the wireless device is a part of.

When an action is added to the action list i.e. an action needs to be performed by a wireless device the action list version is updated Step . This update may occur in response to a request coming in from the wireless device. In this instance the application download server sends a request to the group server and the group server indicates that there is a upgrade action list version or not.

Alternatively the group manager may have received an action added to the list associated with the wireless device and updated the action list version and sent the upgraded action list version to the wireless device.

When the wireless device connects to the application download server it sends a message to the application download server to get the action list version. Note the wireless device may send this message while it is waiting on or initiating other tasks with the application download server or other servers. In this manner it can save overhead processing associated with making the connection to the server.

In response to the request the application download server send the action list version to the wireless device Step . If it is determined that the wireless device needs a new action list step then the application download server sends the new action list associated with the version to the wireless device Step .

In performing this method the application download server may initiate a request to the group manager to determine the latest action list version and the latest action list associated with the wireless device. The wireless device sends some identifying information such as the subscriber identification SID to the application download server so that that action list version and the action list associated with the wireless device can be determined.

When an action is added to the action list associated with the wireless device the action list version is updated Step . The action list version update may be initiated upon the addition of the action to the list. Alternatively the action list version may be generated when the request comes in from the wireless device to check the action list version. Furthermore the action list and action list version may be generated using a hashing algorithm with groups and a group managing scheme.

The action list version is sent to the application download server Step . This may be in response to a request from the application download server or alternatively may be initiated by the group manager so that the application download server has the latest version stored internally.

If the action list is needed by the application download server or the wireless device the group manager server will receive a request for an action list associated with the wireless device Step and in response to receiving the request will compile the action lists and send it to the application download server Step .

The wireless device receives another action list version Step . This action list version may be in response to a request to for the action list version by the wireless device or may be initiated by one of the servers. After receiving the second action list the wireless device compares the second action list with the one stored previously Step . If the versions are the same the process ends Step .

If the versions are different then the Yes branch is followed and the wireless device requests the action list associated with the second action list version from the download server Step . The wireless device may concurrently with this request or have previously given the application download server an identifier such as a subscriber ID so that the application download could send the action list version and action list associated with the wireless device.

The wireless device then receives the action list Step . The action list contains actions associated with wireless device. The wireless device than parses the action list and initiates the actions contained in the action list Step . The wireless device also updates the stored action list version to the second action list version which is associated with the action list just downloaded.

Located in memory is logic to receive over a network a remote action list version number the remote action list version number associated with a remote action list containing an instruction for the wireless device logic to determine whether the remote action list version number is different from a local action list version number logic to send over a network a request for the remote action list in response to determining the remote action list version number is different from the local action list version number logic logic to receive over a network the remote action list. In one or more different embodiments the wireless device includes optional logic to send over a network a request for a remote action list version number the remote action list version number associated with a remote action list containing an instruction for the wireless device. Also in one or more different embodiments the wireless device includes optional logic to execute the instruction contained in the remote action list. In addition in one or more different embodiments the wireless device includes optional logic to replace the local action list version number with the remote action list version number.

Located in memory is logic to store remote from a wireless device a remote action list containing an instruction associated with the wireless device the remote action list having an associated remote action list version number logic to send over a network the remote action list version number associated with the remote action list and logic to receive over a network a request for the remote action list the request for the remote action list generated in response to determining the remote action list version number is different from an action list version number stored at the wireless device In one or more different embodiments the server includes optional logic to send over a network the remote action list in response to determining the remote action list version number is different from a local action list version. Also in one or more different embodiments the server includes optional logic to receive over a network a request for the remote action list version number associated with the remote action list.

Located in memory is logic to maintain an action list associated with at least one wireless device group the action list containing at least one instruction for a wireless device the wireless device group capable of having a plurality of wireless devices as members logic to generate a remote action list for a particular wireless device by identifying at least one wireless device group for which the wireless device is a member and by aggregating the action lists associated with the at least one wireless device group and logic to generate a remote action list version number associated with the remote action list the remote action list version number for use by the wireless device to determine whether the remote action list version number is different from a local action list version number. In one or more different embodiments the server includes optional logic to receive over a network a request for the remote action list version number associated with the remote action list. Also in one or more different embodiments the server includes optional logic to send over a network the remote action list version number associated with the remote action list. Also in one or more different embodiments the server includes optional logic to receive over a network a request for the remote action list the request for the remote action list generated in response to determining the remote action list version number is different from an action list version number stored at the wireless device. Also in one or more different embodiments the server includes optional logic to send over a network the remote action list in response to determining the remote action list version number is different from a local action list version.

The present invention may be implemented for example by operating portion s of the wireless network to execute a sequence of machine readable instructions such as wireless platform the application download server and any other network server . The instructions can reside in various types of signal bearing or data storage primary secondary or tertiary media. The media may comprise for example RAM not shown accessible by or residing within the components of the wireless network . Whether contained in RAM a diskette or other secondary storage media the instructions may be stored on a variety of machine readable data storage media such as DASD storage e.g. a conventional hard drive or a RAID array magnetic tape electronic read only memory e.g. ROM EPROM or EEPROM flash memory cards an optical storage device e.g. CD ROM WORM DVD digital optical tape paper punch cards or other suitable data storage media including digital and analog transmission media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

