---

title: Modulators of androgen synthesis
abstract: The present specification discloses compositions comprising at least one therapeutic compound capable of modulating androgen production and methods and uses for treating a disorder associated with androgen production using such compositions and/or compounds.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09585890&OS=09585890&RS=09585890
owner: Tangent Reprofiling Limited
number: 09585890
owner_city: London
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20160531
---
This application is a continuation and claims the benefit of priority pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 120 to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 708 052 filed on May 8 2015 a continuation in part that claims the benefit of priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 037 481 filed on Sep. 26 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 072 743 a U.S. Non Provisional patent application that claims priority pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional application 61 705 790 filed on Sep. 26 2012 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 871 662 filed on Aug. 29 2013 and also claims the benefit of priority pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Patent Application 61 990 800 filed on May 9 2014 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Androgen is a generic term for any natural or synthetic compound often a steroid hormone . Androgens stimulate or control the development and maintenance of male characteristics in vertebrates by binding to androgen receptors. This includes the activity of the accessory male sex organs and development of male secondary sex characteristics. Androgens are also the original anabolic steroids and the precursor of estrogens the female sex hormones. The androgens include dihydrotestosterone testosterone androstenedione androstenediol and dehydroepiandrosterone.

Certain disorders or disease conditions are exacerbated by the presence of androgens. One such example is a hormone sensitive or hormone dependent cancer. A hormone sensitive or hormone dependent cancer is one where the proliferation of tumor cells depends on the presence of a hormone or its activity. Non limiting examples of hormone dependent cancers include cancers of the breast endometrium prostate ovary testis thyroid and bone. Other examples of a hormone sensitive or hormone dependent disorder include without limitation a non cancerous cell proliferation disorder like a uterine fibroid a fibrocystic breast disease an ovarian cyst and prostate enlargement abnormal uterine bleeding amenorrhoea premenstrual syndrome PMS endometriosis adenomyosis and alopecia.

Hormone depletion therapy is the current treatment option available to people diagnosed with certain hormone sensitive or hormone dependent disorders such as e.g. a hormone dependent cancer. The basic of this therapy is that growth of a cancer can be reduced or halted by starving tumor cells of a hormone inducing cell proliferation. Typically this is achieved by reducing the overall systemic levels of a hormone by preventing the endogenous hormone from interacting with its cognate receptor or both. Although effective at first most hormone dependent cancers become refractory after one to three years and resume growth despite continued hormone depletion therapy. Once a hormone sensitive or hormone dependent disorder becomes hormone refractory the treatment options available to a patient are limited.

Thus there is a still exists a need for the development of pharmaceutical compositions and or therapeutic compounds effective at treating a disorder associated with androgen production.

Aspects of the present specification disclose compositions comprising a therapeutic compound capable of modulating androgen production. Therapeutic compounds include without limitation a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine a fatty acid a 5 reductase inhibitor a chemotherapeutic agent an anti proliferative agent or any combination thereof. The composition disclosed herein may reduce an unwanted side and or reduce a symptom of a disorder associated with androgen production.

Aspects of the present specification also disclose methods of treating an individual with a disorder associated with androgen production. The disclosed methods comprising the step of administering to an individual in need thereof a pharmaceutical composition disclosed herein wherein administration reduces a symptom of a disorder associated with androgen production. A disorder associated with androgen production may be a disorder associated with steroid hydroxy dehydrogenase activity a disorder associated with HSD17B activity a disorder associated with HSD17B10 activity or any combination thereof. A disorder associated with androgen production may be a hormone dependent disorder like a hormone dependent proliferative disorder or a hormone dependent non proliferative disorder. A disorder associated with androgen production may be a cancer a hormone refractory cancer benign prostatic hyperplasia BPH polycystic ovary syndrome acne vulgaris seborrhea female hirsutism or androgenic alopecia. Administration of a pharmaceutical composition may reduce the frequency of a symptom the number of symptoms the severity of a symptom or any combination thereof. Administration of a pharmaceutical composition may also reduce an unwanted side in the individual.

Aspects of the present specification disclose uses of the disclosed compositions and or therapeutic compounds in the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of a disorder associated with androgen production.

Aspects of the present specification disclose uses of the disclosed compositions and or therapeutic compounds in the treatment of a disorder associated with androgen production.

Many patients treated with a hormone depletion therapy become resistant to this therapy. The present specification discloses that one possible mechanism for why certain hormone sensitive or hormone dependent disorders become refractory is the presence of a secondary pathway that produces the hormone or hormonal activity targeted for depletion. For example prostate cancer is a hormone dependent cancer and patients diagnosed with this cancer are typically treated using an androgen depletion therapy. However many such patients become refractory to this treatment after one to three years. One possible explanation for this treatment resistance is the presence of an additional pathway that becomes responsible for generating testosterone or dihydrotestosterone in a manner useful to support proliferation of prostate tumor cells.

The present specification discloses compounds and pharmaceutical compositions comprising compounds that produce therapeutic effects in reducing a symptom of a disorder associated with androgen production. In aspects of this embodiment the therapeutic effect is achieved by reducing or inhibiting the activity facilitated by an alternative or secondary pathway responsible for androgen production. In aspects of this embodiment the therapeutic effect is achieved by reducing or inhibiting the activity facilitated by the primary pathway responsible for androgen production in addition to reducing or inhibiting the activity facilitated by an alternative or secondary pathway responsible for androgen production.

Aspects of the present specification disclose in part a pharmaceutical composition. As used herein the term pharmaceutical composition is synonymous with pharmaceutically acceptable composition and refers to a therapeutically effective concentration of an active ingredient such as e.g. any of the therapeutic compounds disclosed herein. As used herein the term pharmaceutically acceptable refers to any molecular entity or composition that does not produce an adverse allergic or other untoward or unwanted reaction when administered to an individual. A pharmaceutical composition disclosed herein is useful for medical and veterinary applications. A pharmaceutical composition may be administered to an individual alone or in combination with other supplementary active ingredients agents drugs or hormones.

A pharmaceutical composition disclosed herein may comprise one or more therapeutic compounds disclosed herein. In one embodiment pharmaceutical composition disclosed herein may comprise only a single a therapeutic disclosed herein. In another embodiment pharmaceutical composition disclosed herein may comprise a plurality of therapeutic compounds disclosed herein. In aspects of this embodiment a pharmaceutical composition disclosed herein comprises at least one therapeutic compound at least two therapeutic compounds at least three therapeutic compounds or at least four therapeutic compounds. In other aspects of this embodiment a pharmaceutical composition disclosed herein comprises at most two therapeutic compounds at most three therapeutic compounds or at most four therapeutic compounds. In yet other aspects of this embodiment a pharmaceutical composition disclosed herein comprises one to three therapeutic compounds two to four therapeutic compounds two to five therapeutic compounds three to five therapeutic compounds or two to three therapeutic compounds.

A pharmaceutical composition disclosed herein may reduce the occurrence of an unwanted side effect elicited by administration of one or more of the therapeutic compounds contained in the pharmaceutical composition. Examples of an unwanted side effect include without limitation feminization in males and defeminisation of females. Examples of male feminization include without limitation chemical castration decreased erections reduced sexual desire bone pain breast tenderness gynaecomastia hot flushes weight gain gastrointestinal disorders fatigue headache depression nausea hepatic changes including elevated levels of transaminases and jaundice. Examples of female defeminisation include without limitation unwanted hair growth increased risk for developing osteoporosis and joint disorders such as arthritis arthrosis and arthralgia infertility aggressive behaviour adrenal insufficiency kidney failure and liver dysfunction.

Aspects of the present specification disclose in part a therapeutic compound. A therapeutic compound is a compound that provides pharmacological activity or other direct effect in the diagnosis cure mitigation treatment or prevention of disease or to affect the structure or any function of the body of man or animals. Any suitable form of a therapeutic compound may be chosen. A therapeutic compound disclosed herein may be used in the form of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt solvate or solvate of a salt e.g. the hydrochloride. Additionally therapeutic compound disclosed herein may be provided as racemates or as individual enantiomers including the R or S enantiomer. Thus the therapeutic compound disclosed herein may comprise a R enantiomer only a S enantiomer only or a combination of both a R enantiomer and a S enantiomer of a therapeutic compound. A therapeutic compound disclosed herein may also be provided as prodrug or active metabolite.

A therapeutic compound disclosed herein may reduce a symptom of a disorder associated with androgen production by e.g. reducing a steroid hydroxy dehydrogenase activity reducing a 11 hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase activity reducing a symptom of a disorder associated with a 3 hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase activity reducing a 17 hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase activity reducing a 20 hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase activity or any combination thereof. A therapeutic compound disclosed herein may reduce a symptom of a disorder associated with androgen production by e.g. reducing a level or an activity of a dihydrotestosterone reducing a level or an activity of a testosterone reducing a level or an activity of an androstenedione reducing a level or an activity of an androstenediol reducing a level or an activity of a dehydroepiandrosterone or any combination thereof.

In one embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces a symptom of a disorder associated with androgen production. In aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces a symptom of a disorder associated with androgen production by e.g. at least 10 at least 15 at least 20 at least 25 at least 30 at least 35 at least 40 at least 45 at least 50 at least 55 at least 60 at least 65 at least 70 at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 or at least 95 . In other aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces a symptom of a disorder associated with androgen production by e.g. about 10 to about 100 about 20 to about 100 about 30 to about 100 about 40 to about 100 about 50 to about 100 about 60 to about 100 about 70 to about 100 about 80 to about 100 about 10 to about 90 about 20 to about 90 about 30 to about 90 about 40 to about 90 about 50 to about 90 about 60 to about 90 about 70 to about 90 about 10 to about 80 about 20 to about 80 about 30 to about 80 about 40 to about 80 about 50 to about 80 or about 60 to about 80 about 10 to about 70 about 20 to about 70 about 30 to about 70 about 40 to about 70 or about 50 to about 70 .

In another embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces the frequency of a symptom of a disorder associated with androgen production incurred over a given time period. In aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces the frequency of a symptom of a disorder associated with androgen production incurred over a given time period by e.g. at least 10 at least 15 at least 20 at least 25 at least 30 at least 35 at least 40 at least 45 at least 50 at least 55 at least 60 at least 65 at least 70 at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 or at least 95 . In other aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces the frequency of a symptom of a disorder associated with androgen production incurred over a given time period by e.g. about 10 to about 100 about 20 to about 100 about 30 to about 100 about 40 to about 100 about 50 to about 100 about 60 to about 100 about 70 to about 100 about 80 to about 100 about 10 to about 90 about 20 to about 90 about 30 to about 90 about 40 to about 90 about 50 to about 90 about 60 to about 90 about 70 to about 90 about 10 to about 80 about 20 to about 80 about 30 to about 80 about 40 to about 80 about 50 to about 80 or about 60 to about 80 about 10 to about 70 about 20 to about 70 about 30 to about 70 about 40 to about 70 or about 50 to about 70 .

In another embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces the number of symptoms of a disorder associated with androgen production incurred over a given time period. In aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces the number of symptoms of a disorder associated with androgen production incurred over a given time period by e.g. at least 10 at least 15 at least 20 at least 25 at least 30 at least 35 at least 40 at least 45 at least 50 at least 55 at least 60 at least 65 at least 70 at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 or at least 95 . In other aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces the number of symptoms of a disorder associated with androgen production incurred over a given time period by e.g. about 10 to about 100 about 20 to about 100 about 30 to about 100 about 40 to about 100 about 50 to about 100 about 60 to about 100 about 70 to about 100 about 80 to about 100 about 10 to about 90 about 20 to about 90 about 30 to about 90 about 40 to about 90 about 50 to about 90 about 60 to about 90 about 70 to about 90 about 10 to about 80 about 20 to about 80 about 30 to about 80 about 40 to about 80 about 50 to about 80 or about 60 to about 80 about 10 to about 70 about 20 to about 70 about 30 to about 70 about 40 to about 70 or about 50 to about 70 .

In another embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces the severity of a symptom of a disorder associated with androgen production. In aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces the severity of a symptom of a disorder associated with androgen production by e.g. at least 10 at least 15 at least 20 at least 25 at least 30 at least 35 at least 40 at least 45 at least 50 at least 55 at least 60 at least 65 at least 70 at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 or at least 95 . In other aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces the severity of a symptom of a disorder associated with androgen production by e.g. about 10 to about 100 about 20 to about 100 about 30 to about 100 about 40 to about 100 about 50 to about 100 about 60 to about 100 about 70 to about 100 about 80 to about 100 about 10 to about 90 about 20 to about 90 about 30 to about 90 about 40 to about 90 about 50 to about 90 about 60 to about 90 about 70 to about 90 about 10 to about 80 about 20 to about 80 about 30 to about 80 about 40 to about 80 about 50 to about 80 or about 60 to about 80 about 10 to about 70 about 20 to about 70 about 30 to about 70 about 40 to about 70 or about 50 to about 70 .

In one embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces a symptom of a disorder associated with steroid hydroxy dehydrogenase activity. In aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces a symptom of a disorder associated with steroid hydroxy dehydrogenase activity by e.g. at least 10 at least 15 at least 20 at least 25 at least 30 at least 35 at least 40 at least 45 at least 50 at least 55 at least 60 at least 65 at least 70 at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 or at least 95 . In other aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces a symptom of a disorder associated with steroid hydroxy dehydrogenase activity by e.g. about 10 to about 100 about 20 to about 100 about 30 to about 100 about 40 to about 100 about 50 to about 100 about 60 to about 100 about 70 to about 100 about 80 to about 100 about 10 to about 90 about 20 to about 90 about 30 to about 90 about 40 to about 90 about 50 to about 90 about 60 to about 90 about 70 to about 90 about 10 to about 80 about 20 to about 80 about 30 to about 80 about 40 to about 80 about 50 to about 80 or about 60 to about 80 about 10 to about 70 about 20 to about 70 about 30 to about 70 about 40 to about 70 or about 50 to about 70 .

In another embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces the frequency of a symptom of a disorder associated with steroid hydroxy dehydrogenase activity incurred over a given time period. In aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces the frequency of a symptom of a disorder associated with steroid hydroxy dehydrogenase activity incurred over a given time period by e.g. at least 10 at least 15 at least 20 at least 25 at least 30 at least 35 at least 40 at least 45 at least 50 at least 55 at least 60 at least 65 at least 70 at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 or at least 95 . In other aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces the frequency of a symptom of a disorder associated with steroid hydroxy dehydrogenase activity incurred over a given time period by e.g. about 10 to about 100 about 20 to about 100 about 30 to about 100 about 40 to about 100 about 50 to about 100 about 60 to about 100 about 70 to about 100 about 80 to about 100 about 10 to about 90 about 20 to about 90 about 30 to about 90 about 40 to about 90 about 50 to about 90 about 60 to about 90 about 70 to about 90 about 10 to about 80 about 20 to about 80 about 30 to about 80 about 40 to about 80 about 50 to about 80 or about 60 to about 80 about 10 to about 70 about 20 to about 70 about 30 to about 70 about 40 to about 70 or about 50 to about 70 .

In another embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces the number of symptoms of a disorder associated with steroid hydroxy dehydrogenase activity incurred over a given time period. In aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces the number of symptoms of a disorder associated with steroid hydroxy dehydrogenase activity incurred over a given time period by e.g. at least 10 at least 15 at least 20 at least 25 at least 30 at least 35 at least 40 at least 45 at least 50 at least 55 at least 60 at least 65 at least 70 at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 or at least 95 . In other aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces the number of symptoms of a disorder associated with steroid hydroxy dehydrogenase activity incurred over a given time period by e.g. about 10 to about 100 about 20 to about 100 about 30 to about 100 about 40 to about 100 about 50 to about 100 about 60 to about 100 about 70 to about 100 about 80 to about 100 about 10 to about 90 about 20 to about 90 about 30 to about 90 about 40 to about 90 about 50 to about 90 about 60 to about 90 about 70 to about 90 about 10 to about 80 about 20 to about 80 about 30 to about 80 about 40 to about 80 about 50 to about 80 or about 60 to about 80 about 10 to about 70 about 20 to about 70 about 30 to about 70 about 40 to about 70 or about 50 to about 70 .

In another embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces the severity of a symptom of a disorder associated with steroid hydroxy dehydrogenase activity. In aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces the severity of a symptom of a disorder associated with steroid hydroxy dehydrogenase activity by e.g. at least 10 at least 15 at least 20 at least 25 at least 30 at least 35 at least 40 at least 45 at least 50 at least 55 at least 60 at least 65 at least 70 at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 or at least 95 . In other aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces the severity of a symptom of a disorder associated with steroid hydroxy dehydrogenase activity by e.g. about 10 to about 100 about 20 to about 100 about 30 to about 100 about 40 to about 100 about 50 to about 100 about 60 to about 100 about 70 to about 100 about 80 to about 100 about 10 to about 90 about 20 to about 90 about 30 to about 90 about 40 to about 90 about 50 to about 90 about 60 to about 90 about 70 to about 90 about 10 to about 80 about 20 to about 80 about 30 to about 80 about 40 to about 80 about 50 to about 80 or about 60 to about 80 about 10 to about 70 about 20 to about 70 about 30 to about 70 about 40 to about 70 or about 50 to about 70 .

A therapeutic compound disclosed herein may be capable of modulating 17 Hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase HSD17B activity. As used herein the term capable of modulating HSD17B activity refers to the ability of the therapeutic compound disclosed herein to directly or indirectly alter the oxidative activity of a HSD17B directly or indirectly alter the reductive activity of a HSD17B directly or indirectly decrease the level of a progesterone in an individual directly or indirectly decrease the level of an androgen in an individual directly or indirectly decrease the level of an estrogen in an individual or any combination thereof. Steroid hydroxy dehydrogenases are a class of enzyme involved in androgen production. 17 hydroxysteroid dehydrogenases 17 HSDs or HSD17Bs are responsible for oxidation and reduction of androgens via this bio synthetic pathway. Most of these enzymes are capable of working in both redox directions but predominantly carry out one reaction in vivo. HSD17 10 HSD17B10 or HSD10 is known to be up regulated in certain cancers as well as cancer that have become hormone refractory.

In aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound capable of modulating HSD17B activity includes without limitation a therapeutic compound capable of modulating HSD17B subtype 1 HSD17B1 activity a therapeutic compound capable of modulating HSD17B subtype 2 HSD17B2 activity a therapeutic compound capable of modulating HSD17B subtype 3 HSD17B3 activity a therapeutic compound capable of modulating HSD17B subtype 4 HSD17B4 activity a therapeutic compound capable of modulating HSD17B subtype 5 HSD17B5 activity a therapeutic compound capable of modulating HSD17B subtype 6 HSD17B6 activity a therapeutic compound capable of modulating HSD17B subtype 7 HSD17B7 activity a therapeutic compound capable of modulating HSD17B subtype 8 HSD17B8 activity a therapeutic compound capable of modulating HSD17B subtype 9 HSD17B9 activity a therapeutic compound capable of modulating HSD17B subtype 10 HSD17B10 activity a therapeutic compound capable of modulating HSD17B subtype 11 HSD17B11 activity a therapeutic compound capable of modulating HSD17B subtype 12 HSD17B12 activity a therapeutic compound capable of modulating HSD17B subtype 13 HSD17B13 activity a therapeutic compound capable of modulating HSD17B subtype 14 HSD17B14 activity or a therapeutic compound capable of modulating HSD17B subtype 15 HSD17B15 activity.

In one embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces a symptom of a disorder associated with HSD17B activity. In aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces a symptom of a disorder associated with HSD17B activity by e.g. at least 10 at least 15 at least 20 at least 25 at least 30 at least 35 at least 40 at least 45 at least 50 at least 55 at least 60 at least 65 at least 70 at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 or at least 95 . In other aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces a symptom of a disorder associated with HSD17B activity by e.g. about 10 to about 100 about 20 to about 100 about 30 to about 100 about 40 to about 100 about 50 to about 100 about 60 to about 100 about 70 to about 100 about 80 to about 100 about 10 to about 90 about 20 to about 90 about 30 to about 90 about 40 to about 90 about 50 to about 90 about 60 to about 90 about 70 to about 90 about 10 to about 80 about 20 to about 80 about 30 to about 80 about 40 to about 80 about 50 to about 80 or about 60 to about 80 about 10 to about 70 about 20 to about 70 about 30 to about 70 about 40 to about 70 or about 50 to about 70 .

In another embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces the frequency of a symptom of a disorder associated with HSD17B activity incurred over a given time period. In aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces the frequency of a symptom of a disorder associated with HSD17B activity incurred over a given time period by e.g. at least 10 at least 15 at least 20 at least 25 at least 30 at least 35 at least 40 at least 45 at least 50 at least 55 at least 60 at least 65 at least 70 at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 or at least 95 . In other aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces the frequency of a symptom of a disorder associated with HSD17B activity incurred over a given time period by e.g. about 10 to about 100 about 20 to about 100 about 30 to about 100 about 40 to about 100 about 50 to about 100 about 60 to about 100 about 70 to about 100 about 80 to about 100 about 10 to about 90 about 20 to about 90 about 30 to about 90 about 40 to about 90 about 50 to about 90 about 60 to about 90 about 70 to about 90 about 10 to about 80 about 20 to about 80 about 30 to about 80 about 40 to about 80 about 50 to about 80 or about 60 to about 80 about 10 to about 70 about 20 to about 70 about 30 to about 70 about 40 to about 70 or about 50 to about 70 .

In another embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces the number of symptoms of a disorder associated with HSD17B activity incurred over a given time period. In aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces the number of symptoms of a disorder associated with HSD17B activity incurred over a given time period by e.g. at least 10 at least 15 at least 20 at least 25 at least 30 at least 35 at least 40 at least 45 at least 50 at least 55 at least 60 at least 65 at least 70 at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 or at least 95 . In other aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces the number of symptoms of a disorder associated with HSD17B activity incurred over a given time period by e.g. about 10 to about 100 about 20 to about 100 about 30 to about 100 about 40 to about 100 about 50 to about 100 about 60 to about 100 about 70 to about 100 about 80 to about 100 about 10 to about 90 about 20 to about 90 about 30 to about 90 about 40 to about 90 about 50 to about 90 about 60 to about 90 about 70 to about 90 about 10 to about 80 about 20 to about 80 about 30 to about 80 about 40 to about 80 about 50 to about 80 or about 60 to about 80 about 10 to about 70 about 20 to about 70 about 30 to about 70 about 40 to about 70 or about 50 to about 70 .

In another embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces the severity of a symptom of a disorder associated with HSD17B activity. In aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces the severity of a symptom of a disorder associated with HSD17B activity by e.g. at least 10 at least 15 at least 20 at least 25 at least 30 at least 35 at least 40 at least 45 at least 50 at least 55 at least 60 at least 65 at least 70 at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 or at least 95 . In other aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces the severity of a symptom of a disorder associated with HSD17B activity by e.g. about 10 to about 100 about 20 to about 100 about 30 to about 100 about 40 to about 100 about 50 to about 100 about 60 to about 100 about 70 to about 100 about 80 to about 100 about 10 to about 90 about 20 to about 90 about 30 to about 90 about 40 to about 90 about 50 to about 90 about 60 to about 90 about 70 to about 90 about 10 to about 80 about 20 to about 80 about 30 to about 80 about 40 to about 80 about 50 to about 80 or about 60 to about 80 about 10 to about 70 about 20 to about 70 about 30 to about 70 about 40 to about 70 or about 50 to about 70 .

In another embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces the severity of a symptom of a disorder associated with HSD17B10 or HSD10 enzymatic activity. In aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces the severity of a symptom of a disorder associated with HSD17B10 enzymatic activity by e.g. at least 10 at least 15 at least 20 at least 25 at least 30 at least 35 at least 40 at least 45 at least 50 at least 55 at least 60 at least 65 at least 70 at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 or at least 95 . In other aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces the severity of a symptom of a disorder associated with HSD17B10 enzymatic activity by e.g. about 10 to about 100 about 20 to about 100 about 30 to about 100 about 40 to about 100 about 50 to about 100 about 60 to about 100 about 70 to about 100 about 80 to about 100 about 10 to about 90 about 20 to about 90 about 30 to about 90 about 40 to about 90 about 50 to about 90 about 60 to about 90 about 70 to about 90 about 10 to about 80 about 20 to about 80 about 30 to about 80 about 40 to about 80 about 50 to about 80 or about 60 to about 80 about 10 to about 70 about 20 to about 70 about 30 to about 70 about 40 to about 70 or about 50 to about 70 .

In another embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein modulates androgen production. In aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein modulates androgen production by e.g. at least 10 at least 15 at least 20 at least 25 at least 30 at least 35 at least 40 at least 45 at least 50 at least 55 at least 60 at least 65 at least 70 at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 or at least 95 . In other aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein modulates androgen production by e.g. about 10 to about 100 about 20 to about 100 about 30 to about 100 about 40 to about 100 about 50 to about 100 about 60 to about 100 about 70 to about 100 about 80 to about 100 about 10 to about 90 about 20 to about 90 about 30 to about 90 about 40 to about 90 about 50 to about 90 about 60 to about 90 about 70 to about 90 about 10 to about 80 about 20 to about 80 about 30 to about 80 about 40 to about 80 about 50 to about 80 or about 60 to about 80 about 10 to about 70 about 20 to about 70 about 30 to about 70 about 40 to about 70 or about 50 to about 70 . In yet other aspects of this embodiment modulation of androgen production may include modulation of a steroid hydroxy dehydrogenase activity. In still other aspects of this embodiment modulation of androgen production may include a 11 hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase activity a 3 hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase activity a 17 hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase activity a 20 hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase activity or any combination thereof.

In another embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces a level of a dihydrotestosterone. In aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces a level of a dihydrotestosterone by e.g. at least 10 at least 15 at least 20 at least 25 at least 30 at least 35 at least 40 at least 45 at least 50 at least 55 at least 60 at least 65 at least 70 at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 or at least 95 . In other aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces a level of a dihydrotestosterone by e.g. about 10 to about 100 about 20 to about 100 about 30 to about 100 about 40 to about 100 about 50 to about 100 about 60 to about 100 about 70 to about 100 about 80 to about 100 about 10 to about 90 about 20 to about 90 about 30 to about 90 about 40 to about 90 about 50 to about 90 about 60 to about 90 about 70 to about 90 about 10 to about 80 about 20 to about 80 about 30 to about 80 about 40 to about 80 about 50 to about 80 or about 60 to about 80 about 10 to about 70 about 20 to about 70 about 30 to about 70 about 40 to about 70 or about 50 to about 70 .

In another embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces a level of a testosterone. In aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces a level of a testosterone by e.g. at least 10 at least 15 at least 20 at least 25 at least 30 at least 35 at least 40 at least 45 at least 50 at least 55 at least 60 at least 65 at least 70 at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 or at least 95 . In other aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces a level of a testosterone by e.g. about 10 to about 100 about 20 to about 100 about 30 to about 100 about 40 to about 100 about 50 to about 100 about 60 to about 100 about 70 to about 100 about 80 to about 100 about 10 to about 90 about 20 to about 90 about 30 to about 90 about 40 to about 90 about 50 to about 90 about 60 to about 90 about 70 to about 90 about 10 to about 80 about 20 to about 80 about 30 to about 80 about 40 to about 80 about 50 to about 80 or about 60 to about 80 about 10 to about 70 about 20 to about 70 about 30 to about 70 about 40 to about 70 or about 50 to about 70 .

In another embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces a level of an androstenedione. In aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces a level of an androstenedione by e.g. at least 10 at least 15 at least 20 at least 25 at least 30 at least 35 at least 40 at least 45 at least 50 at least 55 at least 60 at least 65 at least 70 at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 or at least 95 . In other aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces a level of an androstenedione by e.g. about 10 to about 100 about 20 to about 100 about 30 to about 100 about 40 to about 100 about 50 to about 100 about 60 to about 100 about 70 to about 100 about 80 to about 100 about 10 to about 90 about 20 to about 90 about 30 to about 90 about 40 to about 90 about 50 to about 90 about 60 to about 90 about 70 to about 90 about 10 to about 80 about 20 to about 80 about 30 to about 80 about 40 to about 80 about 50 to about 80 or about 60 to about 80 about 10 to about 70 about 20 to about 70 about 30 to about 70 about 40 to about 70 or about 50 to about 70 .

In another embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces a level of an androstenediol. In aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces a level of an androstenediol by e.g. at least 10 at least 15 at least 20 at least 25 at least 30 at least 35 at least 40 at least 45 at least 50 at least 55 at least 60 at least 65 at least 70 at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 or at least 95 . In other aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces a level of an androstenediol by e.g. about 10 to about 100 about 20 to about 100 about 30 to about 100 about 40 to about 100 about 50 to about 100 about 60 to about 100 about 70 to about 100 about 80 to about 100 about 10 to about 90 about 20 to about 90 about 30 to about 90 about 40 to about 90 about 50 to about 90 about 60 to about 90 about 70 to about 90 about 10 to about 80 about 20 to about 80 about 30 to about 80 about 40 to about 80 about 50 to about 80 or about 60 to about 80 about 10 to about 70 about 20 to about 70 about 30 to about 70 about 40 to about 70 or about 50 to about 70 .

In another embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces a level of a dehydroepiandrosterone DHEA . In aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces a level of a DHEA by e.g. at least 10 at least 15 at least 20 at least 25 at least 30 at least 35 at least 40 at least 45 at least 50 at least 55 at least 60 at least 65 at least 70 at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 or at least 95 . In other aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces a level of a DHEA by e.g. about 10 to about 100 about 20 to about 100 about 30 to about 100 about 40 to about 100 about 50 to about 100 about 60 to about 100 about 70 to about 100 about 80 to about 100 about 10 to about 90 about 20 to about 90 about 30 to about 90 about 40 to about 90 about 50 to about 90 about 60 to about 90 about 70 to about 90 about 10 to about 80 about 20 to about 80 about 30 to about 80 about 40 to about 80 about 50 to about 80 or about 60 to about 80 about 10 to about 70 about 20 to about 70 about 30 to about 70 about 40 to about 70 or about 50 to about 70 .

In another embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces a level of an estrogen. In aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces a level of an estrogen by e.g. at least 10 at least 15 at least 20 at least 25 at least 30 at least 35 at least 40 at least 45 at least 50 at least 55 at least 60 at least 65 at least 70 at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 or at least 95 . In other aspects of this embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces a level of an estrogen by e.g. about 10 to about 100 about 20 to about 100 about 30 to about 100 about 40 to about 100 about 50 to about 100 about 60 to about 100 about 70 to about 100 about 80 to about 100 about 10 to about 90 about 20 to about 90 about 30 to about 90 about 40 to about 90 about 50 to about 90 about 60 to about 90 about 70 to about 90 about 10 to about 80 about 20 to about 80 about 30 to about 80 about 40 to about 80 about 50 to about 80 or about 60 to about 80 about 10 to about 70 about 20 to about 70 about 30 to about 70 about 40 to about 70 or about 50 to about 70 .

In an embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein is a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine. Benzo iso oxazolepiperidines are a family of antipsychotic drugs. In aspects of this embodiment a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine may be Iloperidone 1 4 3 4 6 fluoro 1 2 benzoxazol 3 yl piperidin 1 yl propoxy 3 methoxyphenyl ethanone ocaperidone 3 2 4 6 fluoro 1 2 benzoxazol 3 yl piperidin 1 yl ethyl 2 9 dimethylpyrido 1 2 a pyrimidin 4 one paliperidone or 9 hydroxyrisperidone 3 2 4 6 fluorobenzo d isoxazol 3 yl 1 piperidyl ethyl 7 hydroxy 4 methyl 1 5 diazabicyclo 4.4.0 deca 3 5 dien 2 one and risperidone 3 2 4 6 fluoro 1 2 benzoxazol 3 yl piperidin 1 yl ethyl 2 methyl 6 7 8 9 tetrahydropyrido 1 2 a pyrimidin 4 one.

In an embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein is compound I or an optionally substituted compound I.

In some embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein is compound II or an optionally substituted compound II.

In some embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein is compound III or an optionally substituted compound III.

In some embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein is compound IV or an optionally substituted compound IV.

Unless otherwise indicated when a compound or chemical structural feature disclosed herein is referred to as being optionally substituted it includes a feature that has no substituents i.e. unsubstituted or a feature that is substituted meaning that the feature has one or more substituents. The term substituent has the broadest meaning known to one of ordinary skill in the art and includes a moiety that replaces one or more hydrogen atoms attached to a parent compound or structural feature. In some embodiments a substituent may be an ordinary organic moiety known in the art which may have a molecular weight e.g. the sum of the atomic masses of the atoms of the substituent of 15 g mol to 50 g mol 15 g mol to 100 g mol 15 g mol to 150 g mol 15 g mol to 200 g mol 15 g mol to 300 g mol or 15 g mol to 500 g mol. In some embodiments a substituent comprises or consists of 0 30 0 20 0 10 or 0 5 carbon atoms and 0 30 0 20 0 10 or 0 5 heteroatoms wherein each heteroatom may independently be N O S Si F Cl Br or I provided that the substituent includes one C N O S Si F Cl Br or I atom. Examples of substituents include but are not limited to alkyl alkenyl alkynyl heteroalkyl heteroalkenyl heteroalkynyl aryl heteroaryl hydroxy alkoxy aryloxy acyl acyloxy alkylcarboxylate thiol alkylthio cyano halo thiocarbonyl O carbamyl N carbamyl O thiocarbamyl N thiocarbamyl C amido N amido S sulfonamido N sulfonamido isocyanato thiocyanato isothiocyanato nitro silyl sulfenyl sulfinyl sulfonyl haloalkyl haloalkoxyl trihalomethanesulfonyl trihalomethanesulfonamido amino etc.

For convenience the term molecular weight is used with respect to a moiety or part of a molecule to indicate the sum of the atomic masses of the atoms in the moiety or part of a molecule even though it may not be a complete molecule.

As used herein the term alkyl has the broadest meaning generally understood in the art and may include a moiety composed of carbon and hydrogen containing no double or triple bonds. Alkyl may be linear alkyl branched alkyl cycloalkyl or a combination thereof and in some embodiments may contain from one to thirty five carbon atoms. In some embodiments alkyl may include Clinear alkyl such as methyl CH ethyl CHCH n propyl CHCHCH n butyl CHCHCHCH n pentyl CHCHCHCHCH n hexyl CHCHCHCHCHCH etc. Cbranched alkyl such as CH e.g. iso propyl CH e.g. branched butyl isomers CH e.g. branched pentyl isomers CH e.g. branched hexyl isomers CH e.g. heptyl isomers etc. Ccycloalkyl such as CH e.g. cyclopropyl CH e.g. cyclobutyl isomers such as cyclobutyl methylcyclopropyl etc. CH e.g. cyclopentyl isomers such as cyclopentyl methylcyclobutyl dimethylcyclopropyl etc. CH e.g. cyclohexyl isomers CH e.g. cycloheptyl isomers etc. and the like.

In an embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein is a pharmaceutically acceptable fatty acid. A fatty acid comprises a carboxylic acid with a long unbranched hydrocarbon chain which may be either saturated or unsaturated. This arrangement confers a fatty acid with a polar hydrophilic end and a nonpolar hydrophobic end that is insoluble in water. Most naturally occurring fatty acids have a hydrocarbon chain of an even number of carbon atoms typically between 4 and 24 carbons and may be attached to functional groups containing oxygen halogens nitrogen and sulfur. Synthetic or non natural fatty acids may have a hydrocarbon chain of any number of carbon atoms from between 3 and 40 carbons. Where a double bond exists there is the possibility of either a cis or a trans geometric isomerism which significantly affects the molecule s molecular configuration. Cis double bonds cause the fatty acid chain to bend an effect that is more pronounced the more double bonds there are in a chain. Most naturally occurring fatty acids are of the cis configuration although the trans form does exist in some natural and partially hydrogenated fats and oils. Examples of fatty acids include without limitation Capryllic acid pelargonic acid Capric acid Undecylic acid Lauric acid Tridecylic acid Myristic acid Myristoleic acid Pentadecyclic acid Palmitic acid Palmitoleic acid Sapienic acid Margaric acid Stearic acid Oleic acid Elaidic acid Vaccenic acid Linoleic acid Linoelaidic acid Linolenic acid Linolenic acid Stearidonic acid Nonadecylic acid Arachidic acid Eicosenoic acid Dihomo linolenic acid Mead acid Arachidonic acid Eicosapentaenoic acid Heneicosylic acid Behenic acid Erucic acid Docosahexaenoic acid Tricosylic acid Lignoceric acid Nervonic acid Pentacosylic acid Cerotic acid Heptacosylic acid Montanic acid Nonacosylic acid Melissic acid Henatriacontylic acid Lacceroic acid Psyllic acid Geddic acid Ceroplastic acid and Hexatriacontylic acid.

In aspects of this embodiment a saturated or unsaturated fatty acid comprises e.g. at least 8 at least 10 at least 12 at least 14 at least 16 at least 18 at least 20 at least 22 at least 24 at least 26 at least 28 or at least 30 carbon atoms In other aspects of this embodiment a saturated or unsaturated fatty acid comprises e.g. between 4 and 24 carbon atoms between 6 and 24 carbon atoms between 8 and 24 carbon atoms between 10 and 24 carbon atoms between 12 and 24 carbon atoms between 14 and 24 carbon atoms or between 16 and 24 carbon atoms between 4 and 22 carbon atoms between 6 and 22 carbon atoms between 8 and 22 carbon atoms between 10 and 22 carbon atoms between 12 and 22 carbon atoms between 14 and 22 carbon atoms or between 16 and 22 carbon atoms between 4 and 20 carbon atoms between 6 and 20 carbon atoms between 8 and 20 carbon atoms between 10 and 20 carbon atoms between 12 and 20 carbon atoms between 14 and 20 carbon atoms or between 16 and 20 carbon atoms. If unsaturated the fatty acid may have e.g. 1 or more 2 or more 3 or more 4 or more 5 or more or 6 or more double bonds.

In another embodiment an adjuvant may comprise one kind of pharmaceutically acceptable fatty acid. In another embodiment an adjuvant may comprise a plurality of different pharmaceutically acceptable fatty acids. In aspects of this embodiment an adjuvant may comprise e.g. two or more different fatty acids three or more different fatty acids four or more different fatty acids five or more different fatty acids or six or more different fatty acids.

A pharmaceutically acceptable fatty acid useful in the pharmaceutical compositions disclosed herein may be a pharmaceutically acceptable omega fatty acid. Non limiting examples of an omega fatty acid include an omega 3 fatty acid an omega 6 fatty acid an omega 7 fatty acid an omega 9 fatty acid. Omega 3 fatty acids also known as n 3 fatty acids or 3 fatty acids are a family of essential unsaturated fatty acids that have in common a final carbon carbon double bond in the n 3 position that is the third bond counting from the methyl end of the fatty acid. The omega 3 fatty acids are essential fatty acids because they are vital for normal metabolism and cannot be synthesized by the human body. An omega 3 fatty acid includes without limitation Hexadecatrienoic acid 16 3 Linolenic acid 18 3 Stearidonic acid 18 4 Eicosatrienoic acid 20 3 Eicosatetraenoic acid 20 4 Eicosapentaenoic acid 20 5 Heneicosapentaenoic acid 21 5 Docosapentaenoic acid Clupanodonic acid 22 5 Docosahexaenoic acid 22 6 Tetracosapentaenoic acid 24 5 Tetracosahexaenoic acid Nisinic acid 24 6 .

Omega 6 fatty acids also known as n 6 fatty acids or 6 fatty acids are a family of unsaturated fatty acids that have in common a final carbon carbon double bond in the n 6 position that is the sixth bond counting from the methyl end of the fatty acid. An omega 6 fatty acid includes without limitation Linoleic acid 18 2 linolenic acid 18 3 Calendic acid 18 3 Eicosadienoic acid 20 2 Dihomo linolenic acid 20 3 Arachidonic acid 20 4 Docosadienoic acid 22 2 Adrenic acid 22 4 Docosapentaenoic acid 22 5 Tetracosatetraenoic acid 24 4 and Tetracosapentaenoic acid 24 5 .

Omega 7 fatty acids also known as n 7 fatty acids or 7 fatty acids are a family of unsaturated fatty acids that have in common a final carbon carbon double bond in the n 7 position that is the seventh bond counting from the methyl end of the fatty acid. An omega 7 fatty acid includes without limitation 5 Dodecenoic acid 12 1 7 Tetradecenoic acid 14 1 9 Hexadecenoic acid Palmitoleic acid 16 1 11 Decenoic acid Vaccenic acid 18 1 9Z 11E conjugated Linoleic acid Rumenic acid 18 2 13 Eicosenoic acid Paullinic acid 20 1 15 Docosenoic acid 22 1 and 17 Tetracosenoic acid 24 1 .

Omega 9 fatty acids also known as n 9 fatty acids or 9 fatty acids are a family of unsaturated fatty acids that have in common a final carbon carbon double bond in the n 9 position that is the ninth bond counting from the methyl end of the fatty acid. An omega 9 fatty acid includes without limitation Oleic acid 18 1 Elaidic acid 18 1 Eicosenoic acid 20 1 Mead acid 20 3 Erucic acid 22 1 Nervonic acid 24 1 and Ricinoleic acid.

A pharmaceutically acceptable fatty acid useful in the pharmaceutical compositions disclosed herein may be a pharmaceutically acceptable conjugated fatty acid. Conjugated fatty acids are positional and geometric isomers of polyunsaturated fatty acids in which at least one pair of double bonds are separated by only one single bond. In one aspect of this embodiment a pharmaceutically acceptable conjugated fatty acid is e.g. a C16 conjugated fatty acid a C18 conjugated fatty acid a C20 conjugated fatty acid a C22 conjugated fatty acid a C24 conjugated fatty acid a C26 conjugated fatty acid a C28 conjugated fatty acid or a C30 conjugated fatty acid. In one aspect of this embodiment pharmaceutically acceptable conjugated fatty acid is e.g. a C16 C18 conjugated fatty acid a C16 C20 conjugated fatty acid a C16 C22 conjugated fatty acid a C16 C24 conjugated fatty acid a C16 C26 conjugated fatty acid a C16 C28 conjugated fatty acid a C16 C30 conjugated fatty acid a C18 C20 conjugated fatty acid a C18 C22 conjugated fatty acid a C18 C24 conjugated fatty acid a C18 C26 conjugated fatty acid a C18 C28 conjugated fatty acid a C18 C30 conjugated fatty acid a C20 C22 conjugated fatty acid a C20 C24 conjugated fatty acid a C20 C26 conjugated fatty acid a C20 C28 conjugated fatty acid a C20 C30 conjugated fatty acid a C22 C24 conjugated fatty acid a C22 C26 conjugated fatty acid a C22 C28 conjugated fatty acid a C22 C30 conjugated fatty acid a C24 C26 conjugated fatty acid a C24 C28 conjugated fatty acid a C24 C30 conjugated fatty acid a C26 C28 conjugated fatty acid a C26 C30 conjugated fatty acid or C28 C30 conjugated fatty acid.

In another aspect of this embodiment a pharmaceutically acceptable conjugated fatty acid includes e.g. a conjugated Linoleic acid a conjugated Linoelaidic acid a conjugated Linolenic acid a conjugated Linolenic acid a conjugated Calendic acid a conjugated Eicosadienoic acid a conjugated Stearidonic acid a conjugated Nonadecylic acid a conjugated Arachidic acid a conjugated Dihomo linolenic acid a conjugated Docosadienoic a conjugated Mead acid a conjugated Arachidonic acid a conjugated Eicosapentaenoic acid a conjugated Adrenic acid a conjugated Docosapentaenoic acid a conjugated Heneicosylic acid a conjugated Tetracosatetraenoic acid a conjugated Tetracosapentaenoic acid a conjugated Behenic acid a conjugated Docosahexaenoic acid a conjugated Tricosylic acid a conjugated Lignoceric acid a conjugated Pentacosylic acid a conjugated Cerotic acid a conjugated Heptacosylic acid a conjugated Montanic acid a conjugated Nonacosylic acid a conjugated Melissic acid a conjugated Henatriacontylic acid a conjugated Lacceroic acid a conjugated Psyllic acid a conjugated Geddic acid a conjugated Ceroplastic acid a conjugated Hexatriacontylic acid or any combination thereof.

A pharmaceutically acceptable fatty acid useful in the pharmaceutical compositions disclosed herein may be a pharmaceutically acceptable conjugated linoleic acid CLA . Conjugated linoleic acid CLA refers to a group of at least 28 positional and geometric isomers of linoleic acid cis 9 cis 12 octadecadienoic acid . The double bonds of CLAs are conjugated with only one single bond between them. Virtually all cis and trans isomeric combinations of CLA have been identified. A CLA includes without limitation cis 9 trans 11 conjugated linoleic acid c 9 t 11 CLA cis 9 cis 11 conjugated linoleic acid c 9 c 11 CLA trans 9 trans 11 conjugated linoleic acid t 9 t 11 CLA and trans 9 cis 11 conjugated linoleic acid t 9 c 11 CLA cis 10 trans 12 conjugated linoleic acid c 10 t 12 CLA cis 10 cis 12 conjugated linoleic acid c 10 c 12 CLA trans 10 trans 12 conjugated linoleic acid t 10 t 12 CLA and trans 10 cis 12 conjugated linoleic acid t 10 c 12 CLA or any combination thereof.

In an embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein is a 5 reductase inhibitor. The enzyme 5 reductase is involved in the conversion of testosterone to the active form dihydrotestosterone DHT by reducing the 4 5 double bond. In benign prostatic hyperplasia dihydrotestosterone acts as a potent cellular androgen and promotes prostate growth therefore inhibiting the enzyme reduces the excessive prostate growth. In alopecia male pattern baldness is one of the effects of androgenic receptor activation. Thus reducing the levels of dihydrotestosterone reduces alopecia. These inhibitors decrease the levels of available 5 reductase prior to testosterone s binding with the enzyme thus reducing levels of dihydrotestosterone that derives from such a bond. A 5 reductase inhibitor include without limitation Alfatradiol Bexlosteride Dutasteride Epristeride Finasteride Isotretinoin Lapisteride Turosteride

In an embodiment a therapeutic compound disclosed herein is a chemotherapeutic agent or an anti proliferative agent. A chemotherapeutic agent or other anti proliferative agent include without limitation alkylating agents such as for example cyclophosphamide lomustine busulfan procarbazine ifosfamide altretamine melphalan estramustine phosphate hexamethylmelamine mechlorethamine thiotepa streptozocin chlorambucil temozolomide dacarbazine semustine or carmustine platinum agents such as for example cisplatin carboplatinum oxaliplatin ZD 0473 AnorMED spiroplatinum lobaplatin Aeterna carboxyphthalatoplatinum satraplatin Johnson Matthey tetraplatin BBR 3464 Hoffmann La Roche ormiplatin SM 11355 Sumitomo iproplatin or AP 5280 Access antimetabolites such as for example azacytidine tomudex gemcitabine trimetrexate capecitabine deoxycoformycin 5 fluorouracil fludarabine floxuridine pentostatin 2 chlorodeoxyadenosine raltitrexed 6 mercaptopurine hydroxyurea 6 thioguanine decitabine SuperGen cytarabin clofarabine Bioenvision 2 fluorodeoxy cytidine irofulven MGI Pharma methotrexate DMDC Hoffmann La Roche idatrexate or ethynylcytidine Taiho topoisomerase inhibitors such as for example amsacrine rubitecan SuperGen epirubicin exatecan mesylate Daiichi etoposide quinamed ChemGenex teniposide mitoxantrone gimatecan Sigma Tau irinotecan CPT 11 diflomotecan Beaufour Ipsen 7 ethyl 10 hydroxy camptothecin TAS 103 Taiho topotecan elsamitrucin Spectrum dexrazoxanet TopoTarget J 107088 Merck Co pixantrone Novuspharma BNP 1350 BioNumerik rebeccamycin analogue Exelixis CKD 602 Chong Kun Dang BBR 3576 Novuspharma or KW 2170 Kyowa Hakko antitumor antibiotics such as for example dactinomycin actinomycin D amonafide doxorubicin adriamycin azonafide deoxyrubicin anthrapyrazole valrubicin oxantrazole daunorubicin daunomycin losoxantrone epirubicin bleomycin sulfate blenoxane therarubicin bleomycinic acid idarubicin bleomycin A rubidazone bleomycin B plicamycin mitomycin C porfiromycin MEN 10755 Menarini cyanomorpholinodoxorubicin GPX 100 Gem Pharmaceuticals or mitoxantrone novantrone antimitotic agents such as for example paclitaxel SB 408075 GlaxoSmithKline docetaxel E7010 Abbott colchicines PG TXL Cell Therapeutics vinblastine IDN 5109 Bayer vincristine A 105972 Abbott vinorelbine A 204197 Abbott vindesine LU 223651 BASF dolastatin 10 NCI D 24851 ASTAMedica rhizoxin Fujisawa ER 86526 Eisai mivobulin Warner Lambert combretastatin A4 BMS cemadotin BASF isohomohalichondrin B PharmaMar RPR 109881A Aventis ZD 6126 AstraZeneca TXD 258 Aventis PEG paclitaxel Enzon epothilone B Novartis AZ10992 Asahi T 900607 Tularik IDN 5109 Indena T 138067 Tularik AVLB Prescient NeuroPharma cryptophycin 52 Eli Lilly azaepothilone B BMS vinflunine Fabre BNP 7787 BioNumerik auristatin PE Teikoku Hormone CA 4 prodrug OXiGENE BMS 247550 BMS dolastatin 10 NIH BMS 184476 BMS CA 4 OXiGENE BMS 188797 BMS or taxoprexin Protarga aromatase inhibitors such as for example aminoglutethimide exemestane letrozole atamestane BioMedicines anastrazole YM 511 Yamanouchi or formestane thymidylate synthase inhibitors such as for example pemetrexed Eli Lilly nolatrexed Eximias ZD 9331 BTG or CoFactor BioKeys DNA antagonists such as for example trabectedin PharmaMar mafosfamide Baxter International glufosfamide Baxter International apaziquone Spectrum Pharmaceuticals albumin .sup.32P Isotope Solutions 06 benzyl guanine Paligent thymectacin NewBiotics or edotreotide Novartis farnesyltransferase inhibitors such as for example arglabin NuOncology Labs tipifarnib Johnson Johnson lonafarnib Schering Plough perillyl alcohol DOR BioPharma or BAY 43 9006 Bayer Pump inhibitors such as for example CBT 1 CBA Pharma zosuquidar trihydrochloride Eli Lilly tariquidar Xenova biricodar dicitrate Vertex or MS 209 Schering AG Histone acetyltransferase inhibitors such as for example tacedinaline Pfizer pivaloyloxymethyl butyrate Titan SAHA Aton Pharma depsipeptide Fujisawa or MS 275 Schering AG Metalloproteinase inhibitors such as for example Neovastat Aeterna Laboratories CMT 3 CollaGenex marimastat British Biotech or BMS 275291 Celltech ribonucleoside reductase inhibitors such as for example gallium maltolate Titan tezacitabine Aventis triapine Vion or didox Molecules for Health TNF alpha agonists antagonists such as for example virulizin Lorus Therapeutics revimid Celgene CDC 394 Celgene entanercept Immunex Corp. infliximab Centocor Inc. or adalimumab Abbott Laboratories endothelin A receptor antagonists such as for example atrasentan Abbott YM 598 Yamanouchi or ZD 4054 AstraZeneca retinoic acid receptor agonists such as for example fenretinide Johnson Johnson alitretinoin Ligand or LGD 1550 Ligand immuno modulators such as for example interferon dexosome therapy Anosys oncophage Antigenics pentrix Australian Cancer Technology GMK Progenics ISF 154 Tragen adenocarcinoma vaccine Biomira cancer vaccine Intercell CTP 37 AVI BioPharma norelin Biostar IRX 2 Immuno Rx BLP 25 Biomira PEP 005 Peplin Biotech MGV Progenics synchrovax vaccines CTL Immuno beta alethine Dovetail melanoma vaccine CTL Immuno CLL therapy Vasogen or p21 RAS vaccine GemVax hormonal and antihormonal agents such as for example estrogens prednisone conjugated estrogens methylprednisolone ethinyl estradiol prednisolone chlortrianisen aminoglutethimide idenestrol leuprolide hydroxyprogesterone caproate goserelin medroxyprogesterone leuporelin testosterone bicalutamide testosterone propionate fluoxymesterone flutamide methyltestosterone octreotide diethylstilbestrol nilutamide megestrol mitotane tamoxifen P 04 Novogen toremofine 2 methoxyestradiol EntreMed dexamethasone or arzoxifene Eli Lilly photodynamic agents such as for example talaporfin Light Sciences Pd bacteriopheophorbide Yeda Theralux Theratechnologies lutetium texaphyrin Pharmacyclics motexafin gadolinium Pharmacyclics or hypericin and tyrosine kinase inhibitors such as for example imatinib Novartis kahalide F PharmaMar leflunomide Sugen Pharmacia CEP 701 Cephalon ZD1839 AstraZeneca CEP 751 Cephalon erlotinib Oncogene Science MLN518 Millenium canertinib Pfizer PKC412 Novartis squalamine Genaera phenoxodiol SU5416 Pharmacia trastuzumab Genentech SU6668 Pharmacia C225 ImClone ZD4190 AstraZeneca rhu Mab Genentech ZD6474 AstraZeneca MDX H210 Medarex vatalanib Novartis 2C4 Genentech PKI166 Novartis MDX 447 Medarex GW2016 GlaxoSmithKline ABX EGF Abgenix EKB 509 Wyeth IMC 1C11 ImClone or EKB 569 Wyeth .

Depending upon the particular condition or disease to be treated additional therapeutic agents that are normally administered to treat that condition may also be present in the compositions disclosed herein. As used herein additional therapeutic agents that are normally administered to treat a particular disease or condition are known as appropriate for the disease or condition being treated .

In an embodiment a pharmaceutical composition comprises a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine and a fatty acid. In an aspect of this embodiment a pharmaceutical composition comprises a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine and an Omega 3 fatty acid. In another aspect of this embodiment a pharmaceutical composition comprises a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine and an Omega 6 fatty acid. In yet another aspect of this embodiment a pharmaceutical composition comprises a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine and an Omega 7 fatty acid. In still another aspect of this embodiment a pharmaceutical composition comprises a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine and an Omega 9 fatty acid. In other aspects a pharmaceutical composition comprises Risperidone and an Omega 3 fatty acid an Omega 6 fatty acid an Omega 7 fatty acid an Omega 9 fatty acid or any combination thereof. In yet other aspects a pharmaceutical composition comprises Risperidone and Linolenic acid Arachidonic acid Docosahexaenoic acid Rumenic acid or any combination thereof.

In an embodiment a pharmaceutical composition comprises a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine and a fatty acid where there is a synergistic effect between the benzo iso oxazolepiperidine and the fatty acid. In an aspect of this embodiment a pharmaceutical composition comprises a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine and an Omega 3 fatty acid where there is a synergistic effect between the benzo iso oxazolepiperidine and the Omega 3 fatty acid. In another aspect of this embodiment a pharmaceutical composition comprises a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine and an Omega 6 fatty acid where there is a synergistic effect between the benzo iso oxazolepiperidine and the Omega 6 fatty acid. In yet another aspect of this embodiment a pharmaceutical composition comprises a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine and an Omega 7 fatty acid where there is a synergistic effect between the benzo iso oxazolepiperidine and the Omega 7 fatty acid. In still another aspect of this embodiment a pharmaceutical composition comprises a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine and an Omega 9 fatty acid where there is a synergistic effect between the benzo iso oxazolepiperidine and the Omega 9 fatty acid. In other aspects a pharmaceutical composition comprises Risperidone and an Omega 3 fatty acid an Omega 6 fatty acid an Omega 7 fatty acid an Omega 9 fatty acid or any combination thereof where there is a synergistic effect between the benzo iso oxazolepiperidine and the Omega 3 fatty acid the Omega 6 fatty acid the Omega 7 fatty acid the Omega 9 fatty acid or any combination thereof. In yet other aspects a pharmaceutical composition comprises Risperidone and Linolenic acid Arachidonic acid Docosahexaenoic acid Rumenic acid or any combination thereof.

In an embodiment a pharmaceutical composition comprises a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine in an amount of about 0.1 mg about 0.2 mg about 0.3 mg about 0.4 mg about 0.5 mg about 0.6 mg about 0.7 mg about 0.8 mg about 0.9 mg about 1 mg about 2 mg about 3 mg about 4 mg about 5 mg about 6 mg about 7 mg about 8 mg about 9 mg about 10 mg about 11 mg about 12 mg about 13 mg about 14 mg about 15 mg about 16 mg about 17 mg about 18 mg about 19 mg or about 20 mg and a fatty acid like an Omega 3 fatty acid an Omega 6 fatty acid an Omega 7 fatty acid an Omega 9 fatty acid or any combination thereof in an amount of about 0.1 mg about 0.2 mg about 0.3 mg about 0.4 mg about 0.5 mg about 0.6 mg about 0.7 mg about 0.8 mg about 0.9 mg about 1 mg about 2 mg about 3 mg about 4 mg about 5 mg about 6 mg about 7 mg about 8 mg about 9 mg about 10 mg about 11 mg about 12 mg about 13 mg about 14 mg about 15 mg about 16 mg about 17 mg about 18 mg about 19 mg or about 20 mg.

In an embodiment a pharmaceutical composition comprises a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine in an amount of at least 0.1 mg at least 0.2 mg at least 0.3 mg at least 0.4 mg at least 0.5 mg at least 0.6 mg at least 0.7 mg at least 0.8 mg at least 0.9 mg at least 1 mg at least 2 mg at least 3 mg at least 4 mg at least 5 mg at least 6 mg at least 7 mg at least 8 mg at least 9 mg at least 10 mg at least 11 mg at least 12 mg at least 13 mg at least 14 mg at least 15 mg at least 16 mg at least 17 mg at least 18 mg at least 19 mg or at least 20 mg and a fatty acid like an Omega 3 fatty acid an Omega 6 fatty acid an Omega 7 fatty acid an Omega 9 fatty acid or any combination thereof in an amount of at least 0.1 mg at least 0.2 mg at least 0.3 mg at least 0.4 mg at least 0.5 mg at least 0.6 mg at least 0.7 mg at least 0.8 mg at least 0.9 mg at least 1 mg at least 2 mg at least 3 mg at least 4 mg at least 5 mg at least 6 mg at least 7 mg at least 8 mg at least 9 mg at least 10 mg at least 11 mg at least 12 mg at least 13 mg at least 14 mg at least 15 mg at least 16 mg at least 17 mg at least 18 mg at least 19 mg or at least 20 mg.

In an embodiment a pharmaceutical composition comprises a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine in an amount of at most 0.1 mg at most 0.2 mg at most 0.3 mg at most 0.4 mg at most 0.5 mg at most 0.6 mg at most 0.7 mg at most 0.8 mg at most 0.9 mg at most 1 mg at most 2 mg at most 3 mg at most 4 mg at most 5 mg at most 6 mg at most 7 mg at most 8 mg at most 9 mg at most 10 mg at most 11 mg at most 12 mg at most 13 mg at most 14 mg at most 15 mg at most 16 mg at most 17 mg at most 18 mg at most 19 mg or at most 20 mg and a fatty acid like an Omega 3 fatty acid an Omega 6 fatty acid an Omega 7 fatty acid an Omega 9 fatty acid or any combination thereof in an amount of at most 0.1 mg at most 0.2 mg at most 0.3 mg at most 0.4 mg at most 0.5 mg at most 0.6 mg at most 0.7 mg at most 0.8 mg at most 0.9 mg at most 1 mg at most 2 mg at most 3 mg at most 4 mg at most 5 mg at most 6 mg at most 7 mg at most 8 mg at most 9 mg at most 10 mg at most 11 mg at most 12 mg at most 13 mg at most 14 mg at most 15 mg at most 16 mg at most 17 mg at most 18 mg at most 19 mg or at most 20 mg.

In an embodiment a pharmaceutical composition comprises a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine in an amount of about 0.1 mg to about 1 mg about 0.1 mg to about 5 mg about 0.1 mg to about 10 mg about 0.1 mg to about 15 mg about 0.1 mg to about 20 mg about 0.5 mg to about 1 mg about 0.5 mg to about 5 mg about 0.5 mg to about 10 mg about 0.5 mg to about 15 mg about 0.5 mg to about 20 mg about 1 mg to about 5 mg about 1 mg to about 10 mg about 1 mg to about 15 mg about 1 mg to about 20 mg about 5 mg to about 10 mg about 5 mg to about 15 mg about 5 mg to about 20 mg about 10 mg to about 15 mg about 10 mg to about 20 mg or about 15 mg to about 20 mg and a fatty acid like an Omega 3 fatty acid an Omega 6 fatty acid an Omega 7 fatty acid an Omega 9 fatty acid or any combination thereof in an amount of about 0.1 mg to about 1 mg about 0.1 mg to about 5 mg about 0.1 mg to about 10 mg about 0.1 mg to about 15 mg about 0.1 mg to about 20 mg about 0.5 mg to about 1 mg about 0.5 mg to about 5 mg about 0.5 mg to about 10 mg about 0.5 mg to about 15 mg about 0.5 mg to about 20 mg about 1 mg to about 5 mg about 1 mg to about 10 mg about 1 mg to about 15 mg about 1 mg to about 20 mg about 5 mg to about 10 mg about 5 mg to about 15 mg about 5 mg to about 20 mg about 10 mg to about 15 mg about 10 mg to about 20 mg or about 15 mg to about 20 mg.

A pharmaceutical composition disclosed herein may optionally include a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier that facilitates processing of an active ingredient into pharmaceutically acceptable compositions. As used herein the term pharmacologically acceptable carrier is synonymous with pharmacological carrier and means any carrier that has substantially no long term or permanent detrimental effect when administered and encompasses terms such as pharmacologically acceptable vehicle stabilizer diluent additive auxiliary or excipient. Such a carrier generally is mixed with an active compound or permitted to dilute or enclose the active compound and can be a solid semi solid or liquid agent. It is understood that the active ingredients can be soluble or can be delivered as a suspension in the desired carrier or diluent. Any of a variety of pharmaceutically acceptable carriers can be used including without limitation aqueous media such as e.g. water saline glycine hyaluronic acid and the like solid carriers such as e.g. mannitol lactose starch magnesium stearate sodium saccharin talcum cellulose glucose sucrose magnesium carbonate and the like solvents dispersion media coatings antibacterial and antifungal agents isotonic and absorption delaying agents or any other inactive ingredient. Selection of a pharmacologically acceptable carrier can depend on the mode of administration. Except insofar as any pharmacologically acceptable carrier is incompatible with the active ingredient its use in pharmaceutically acceptable compositions is contemplated. Non limiting examples of specific uses of such pharmaceutical carriers can be found in Pharmaceutical Dosage Forms and Drug Delivery Systems Howard C. Ansel et al. eds. Lippincott Williams Wilkins Publishers 7th ed. 1999 REMINGTON THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF PHARMACY Alfonso R. Gennaro ed. Lippincott Williams Wilkins 20th ed. 2000 Goodman Gilman s The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics Joel G. Hardman et al. eds. McGraw Hill Professional 10th ed. 2001 and Handbook of Pharmaceutical Excipients Raymond C. Rowe et al. APhA Publications 4th edition 2003 . These protocols are routine procedures and any modifications are well within the scope of one skilled in the art and from the teaching herein.

A pharmaceutical composition disclosed herein can optionally include without limitation other pharmaceutically acceptable components or pharmaceutical components including without limitation buffers preservatives tonicity adjusters salts antioxidants osmolality adjusting agents physiological substances pharmacological substances bulking agents emulsifying agents wetting agents flavoring agents coloring agents and the like. Various buffers and means for adjusting pH can be used to prepare a pharmaceutical composition disclosed herein provided that the resulting preparation is pharmaceutically acceptable. Such buffers include without limitation acetate buffers citrate buffers phosphate buffers neutral buffered saline phosphate buffered saline and borate buffers. It is understood that acids or bases can be used to adjust the pH of a composition as needed. Pharmaceutically acceptable antioxidants include without limitation sodium metabisulfite sodium thiosulfate acetylcysteine butylated hydroxyanisole and butylated hydroxytoluene. Useful preservatives include without limitation benzalkonium chloride chlorobutanol thimerosal phenylmercuric acetate phenylmercuric nitrate a stabilized oxy chloro composition and chelants such as e.g. DTPA or DTPA bisamide calcium DTPA and CaNaDTPA bisamide. Tonicity adjustors useful in a pharmaceutical composition include without limitation salts such as e.g. sodium chloride potassium chloride mannitol or glycerin and other pharmaceutically acceptable tonicity adjustor. The pharmaceutical composition may be provided as a salt and can be formed with many acids including but not limited to hydrochloric sulfuric acetic lactic tartaric malic succinic etc. Salts tend to be more soluble in aqueous or other protonic solvents than are the corresponding free base forms. It is understood that these and other substances known in the art of pharmacology can be included in a pharmaceutical composition.

A therapeutic compound disclosed herein or a composition comprising such a therapeutic compound may be formulated for either local or systemic delivery using topical enteral or parenteral routes of administration. Additionally a therapeutic compound disclosed herein may be formulated by itself in a pharmaceutical composition or may be formulated together with one or more other therapeutic compounds disclosed herein in a single pharmaceutical composition.

A therapeutic compound disclosed herein or a composition comprising such a therapeutic compound may be made into an inhaled formulation. Inhaled formulations suitable for enteral or parenteral administration include without limitation aerosols dry powders. A therapeutic compound or composition disclosed herein intended for such administration may be prepared according to any method known to the art for the manufacture of pharmaceutical compositions.

In such inhaled dosage forms the therapeutic compound may be prepared for delivery as an aerosol in a liquid propellant for use in a pressurised PDI or other metered dose inhaler MDI . Propellants suitable for use in a PDI or MDI include without limitation CFC 12 HFA 134a HFA 227 HCFC 22 difluorochloromethane HFA 152 difluoroethane and isobutane . A therapeutic compound may also be delivered using a nebulisers or other aerosol delivery system. A therapeutic compound may be prepared for delivery as a dry powder for use in a dry powder inhaler DPI . A dry powder for use in the inhalers will usually have a mass median aerodynamic diameter of less than 30 pm preferably less than 20 pm and more preferably less than 10 pm. Microparticles having aerodynamic diameters in the range of about 5 pm to about 0.5 pm will generally be deposited in the respiratory bronchioles whereas smaller particles having aerodynamic diameters in the range of about 2 pm to about 0.05 pm are likely to be deposited in the alveoli. A DPI may be a passive delivery mechanism which relies on the individual s inspiration to introduce the particles into the lungs or an active delivery mechanism requiring a mechanism for delivering the powder to the individual. In inhalatory formulations a therapeutically effective amount of a therapeutic compound disclosed herein for an inhaled formulation may be between about 0.0001 w v to about 60 w v about 0.001 w v to about 40.0 w v or about 0.01 w v to about 20.0 w v . In inhalatory formulations a therapeutically effective amount of a therapeutic compound disclosed herein for an inhaled formulation may also be between about 0.0001 w w to about 60 w w about 0.001 w w to about 40.0 w w or about 0.01 w w to about 20.0 w w .

A therapeutic compound disclosed herein or a composition comprising such a therapeutic compound may be made into a solid formulation. Solid formulations suitable for enteral or parenteral administration include without limitation capsules tablets pills troches lozenges powders and granules suitable for inhalation or for reconstitution into sterile injectable solutions or dispersions. A therapeutic compound or composition disclosed herein intended for such administration may be prepared according to any method known to the art for the manufacture of pharmaceutical compositions. In such solid dosage forms the therapeutic compound may be admixed with a at least one inert customary excipient or carrier such as e.g. sodium citrate or dicalcium phosphate or b fillers or extenders as for example starch lactose sucrose glucose mannitol isomalt and silicic acid c binders such as e.g. carboxymethylcellulose alignates gelatin polyvinylpyrrolidone sucrose and acacia d humectants such as e.g. glycerol e disintegrating agents such as e.g. agar agar calcium carbonate corn starch potato starch tapioca starch alginic acid certain complex silicates and sodium carbonate f solution retarders such as e.g. paraffin g absorption accelerators such as e.g. quaternary ammonium compounds h wetting agents such as e.g. cetyl alcohol and glycerol monostearate i adsorbents such as e.g. kaolin and bentonite j lubricants such as e.g. talc stearic acid calcium stearate magnesium stearate solid polyethylene glycols sodium lauryl sulfate or mixtures thereof and k buffering agents. The tablets may be uncoated or they may be coated by known techniques to delay disintegration and absorption in the gastrointestinal tract and thereby provide a sustained action over a longer period. For example a time delay material such as glyceryl monostearate or glyceryl distearate may be employed. In solid formulations a therapeutically effective amount of a therapeutic compound disclosed herein typically may be between about 0.0001 w w to about 60 w w about 0.001 w w to about 40.0 w w or about 0.01 w w to about 20.0 w w .

A therapeutic compound disclosed herein or a composition comprising such a therapeutic compound may be made into a semi solid formulation. Semi solid formulations suitable for topical administration include without limitation ointments creams salves and gels. A therapeutic compound or composition disclosed herein intended for such administration may be prepared according to any method known to the art for the manufacture of pharmaceutical compositions. In semi solid formulations a therapeutically effective amount of a therapeutic compound disclosed herein typically may be between about 0.0001 w v to about 60 w v about 0.001 w v to about 40.0 w v or about 0.01 w v to about 20.0 w v . In semi solid formulations a therapeutically effective amount of a therapeutic compound disclosed herein typically may also be between about 0.0001 w w to about 60 w w about 0.001 w w to about 40.0 w w or about 0.01 w w to about 20.0 w w .

A therapeutic compound disclosed herein or a composition comprising such a therapeutic compound may be made into a liquid formulation. Liquid formulations suitable for enteral or parenteral administration include without limitation solutions syrups elixirs dispersions emulsions and suspensions. A therapeutic compound or composition disclosed herein intended for such administration may be prepared according to any method known to the art for the manufacture of pharmaceutical compositions. In such liquid dosage forms a therapeutic compound or composition disclosed herein may be admixed with a suitable aqueous and nonaqueous carriers b diluents c solvents such as e.g. water ethanol propylene glycol polyethyleneglycol glycerol vegetable oils such as e.g. rapeseed oil and olive oil and injectable organic esters such as ethyl oleate and or fluidity agents such as e.g. surfactants or coating agents like lecithin. In the case of dispersions and suspensions fluidity can also be controlled by maintaining a particular particle size. In liquid formulations a therapeutically effective amount of a therapeutic compound disclosed herein typically may be between about 0.0001 w v to about 60 w v about 0.001 w v to about 40.0 w v or about 0.01 w v to about 20.0 w v .

Syrups and elixirs may be formulated with sweetening agents for example glycerol propylene glycol sorbitol or sucrose. Such formulations may also contain a demulcent a preservative flavoring agents and coloring agents.

Liquid suspensions may be formulated by suspending a therapeutic compound disclosed herein in admixture with excipients suitable for the manufacture of aqueous suspensions. Such excipients are suspending agents for example sodium carboxymethylcellulose methylcellulose hydroxypropylmethylcellulose sodium alginate pectin polyvinyl pyrrolidone polyvinyl alcohol natural gum agar gum tragacanth and gum acacia dispersing or wetting agents may be a naturally occurring phosphatide for example lecithin or condensation products of an alkylene oxide with fatty acids for example polyoxyethylene stearate or condensation products of ethylene oxide with long chain aliphatic alcohols for example heptadecaethyleneoxycetanol or condensation products of ethylene oxide with partial esters derived from fatty acids for example polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate.

Oily suspensions may be formulated by suspending a therapeutic compound disclosed herein in admixture with a vegetable oils such as e.g. almond oil oil avocado oil canola oil castor oil coconut oil corn oil cottonseed oil grape seed oil hazelnut oil hemp oil linseed oil olive oil palm oil peanut oil rapeseed oil rice bran oil safflower oil sesame oil soybean oil soya oil sunflower oil walnut oil wheat germ oil or a combination thereof b a saturated fatty acid an unsaturated fatty acid or a combination thereof such as e.g. palmitic acid stearic acid oleic acid linoleic acid linolenic acid or a combination thereof c mineral oil such as e.g. liquid paraffin d surfactants or detergents. The oily suspensions may contain a thickening agent for example beeswax hard paraffin or cetyl alcohol. Sweetening agents such as those set forth above and flavoring agents may be added to provide a palatable oral preparation. These compositions may be preserved by the addition of an antioxidant such as ascorbic acid.

Dispersible powders and granules suitable for preparation of an aqueous suspension by the addition of water provide the combined therapeutic compounds in admixture with a dispersing or wetting agent suspending agent and one or more preservatives.

A therapeutic compound disclosed herein may be in the form of oil in water emulsions. The oily phase may be a vegetable oil as disclosed herein or a mineral oil as disclosed herein or mixtures thereof. Suitable emulsifying agents may be naturally occurring gums such as e.g. gum acacia or gum tragacanth naturally occurring phosphatides for example soya bean lecithin and esters or partial esters derived from fatty acids and hexitol anhydrides for example sorbitan monooleate and condensation products of the said partial esters with ethylene oxide for example polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate.

A therapeutic compound disclosed herein or a composition comprising such a therapeutic compound may also be incorporated into a drug delivery platform in order to achieve a controlled release profile over time. Such a drug delivery platform comprises a therapeutic compound disclosed herein dispersed within a polymer matrix typically a biodegradable bioerodible and or bioresorbable polymer matrix. As used herein the term polymer refers to synthetic homo or copolymers naturally occurring homo or copolymers as well as synthetic modifications or derivatives thereof having a linear branched or star structure. Copolymers can be arranged in any form such as e.g. random block segmented tapered blocks graft or triblock. Polymers are generally condensation polymers. Polymers can be further modified to enhance their mechanical or degradation properties by introducing cross linking agents or changing the hydrophobicity of the side residues. If crosslinked polymers are usually less than 5 crosslinked usually less than 1 crosslinked.

Suitable polymers include without limitation alginates aliphatic polyesters polyalkylene oxalates polyamides polyamidoesters polyanhydrides polycarbonates polyesters polyethylene glycol polyhydroxyaliphatic carboxylic acids polyorthoesters polyoxaesters polypeptides polyphosphazenes polysaccharides and polyurethanes. The polymer usually comprises at least about 10 w w at least about 20 w w at least about 30 w w at least about 40 w w at least about 50 w w at least about 60 w w at least about 70 w w at least about 80 w w or at least about 90 w w of the drug delivery platform. Examples of biodegradable bioerodible and or bioresorbable polymers and methods useful to make a drug delivery platform are described in e.g. Drost et. al. Controlled Release Formulation U.S. Pat. No. 4 756 911 Smith et. al. Sustained Release Drug Delivery Devices U.S. Pat. No. 5 378 475 Wong and Kochinke Formulation for Controlled Release of Drugs by Combining Hyrophilic and Hydrophobic Agents U.S. Pat. No. 7 048 946 Hughes et. al. Compositions and Methods for Localized Therapy of the Eye U.S. Patent Publication 2005 0181017 Hughes Hypotensive Lipid Containing Biodegradable Intraocular Implants and Related Methods U.S. Patent Publication 2005 0244464 Altman et al. Silk Fibroin Hydrogels and Uses Thereof U.S. Patent Publication 2011 0008437 each of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In aspects of this embodiment a polymer composing the matrix is a polypeptide such as e.g. silk fibroin keratin or collagen. In other aspects of this embodiment a polymer composing the matrix is a polysaccharide such as e.g. cellulose agarose elastin chitosan chitin or a glycosaminoglycan like chondroitin sulfate dermatan sulfate keratan sulfate or hyaluronic acid. In yet other aspects of this embodiment a polymer composing the matrix is a polyester such as e.g. D lactic acid L lactic acid racemic lactic acid glycolic acid caprolactone and combinations thereof.

One of ordinary skill in the art appreciates that the selection of a suitable polymer for forming a suitable disclosed drug delivery platform depends on several factors. The more relevant factors in the selection of the appropriate polymer s include without limitation compatibility of polymer with drug desired release kinetics of drug desired biodegradation kinetics of platform at implantation site desired bioerodible kinetics of platform at implantation site desired bioresorbable kinetics of platform at implantation site in vivo mechanical performance of platform processing temperatures biocompatibility of platform and patient tolerance. Other relevant factors that to some extent dictate the in vitro and in vivo behavior of the polymer include the chemical composition spatial distribution of the constituents the molecular weight of the polymer and the degree of crystallinity.

A drug delivery platform includes both a sustained release drug delivery platform and an extended release drug delivery platform. As used herein the term sustained release refers to the release of a therapeutic compound disclosed herein over a period of about seven days or more. As used herein the term extended release refers to the release of a therapeutic compound disclosed herein over a period of time of less than about seven days.

In aspects of this embodiment a sustained release drug delivery platform releases a therapeutic compound disclosed herein with substantially zero order release kinetics over a period of e.g. about 7 days after administration about 15 days after administration about 30 days after administration about 45 days after administration about 60 days after administration about 75 days after administration or about 90 days after administration. In other aspects of this embodiment a sustained release drug delivery platform releases a therapeutic compound disclosed herein with substantially zero order release kinetics over a period of e.g. at least 7 days after administration at least 15 days after administration at least 30 days after administration at least 45 days after administration at least 60 days after administration at least 75 days after administration or at least 90 days after administration.

In aspects of this embodiment a sustained release drug delivery platform releases a therapeutic compound disclosed herein with substantially first order release kinetics over a period of e.g. about 7 days after administration about 15 days after administration about 30 days after administration about 45 days after administration about 60 days after administration about 75 days after administration or about 90 days after administration. In other aspects of this embodiment a sustained release drug delivery platform releases a therapeutic compound disclosed herein with substantially first order release kinetics over a period of e.g. at least 7 days after administration at least 15 days after administration at least 30 days after administration at least 45 days after administration at least 60 days after administration at least 75 days after administration or at least 90 days after administration.

In aspects of this embodiment a drug delivery platform releases a therapeutic compound disclosed herein with substantially zero order release kinetics over a period of e.g. about 1 day after administration about 2 days after administration about 3 days after administration about 4 days after administration about 5 days after administration or about 6 days after administration. In other aspects of this embodiment a drug delivery platform releases a therapeutic compound disclosed herein with substantially zero order release kinetics over a period of e.g. at most 1 day after administration at most 2 days after administration at most 3 days after administration at most 4 days after administration at most 5 days after administration or at most 6 days after administration.

In aspects of this embodiment a drug delivery platform releases a therapeutic compound disclosed herein with substantially first order release kinetics over a period of e.g. about 1 day after administration about 2 days after administration about 3 days after administration about 4 days after administration about 5 days after administration or about 6 days after administration. In other aspects of this embodiment a drug delivery platform releases a therapeutic compound disclosed herein with substantially first order release kinetics over a period of e.g. at most 1 day after administration at most 2 days after administration at most 3 days after administration at most 4 days after administration at most 5 days after administration or at most 6 days after administration.

Aspects of the present specification disclose in part a method of treating an individual with a disorder associated with androgen production. In one embodiment the method comprises the step of administering to an individual in need thereof a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine disclosed herein and a pharmaceutically acceptable conjugated fatty acid disclosed herein wherein administration reduces a symptom of a disorder associated with androgen production thereby treating the individual. The benzo iso oxazolepiperidine disclosed herein and a pharmaceutically acceptable conjugated fatty acid disclosed herein may be administered sequentially or simultaneously. When administered simultaneously the benzo iso oxazolepiperidine disclosed herein and a pharmaceutically acceptable conjugated fatty acid disclosed herein may be formulated as separate compositions or as a single composition. In one embodiment the method comprises the step of administering to an individual in need thereof a pharmaceutical composition disclosed herein wherein administration reduces a symptom of a disorder associated with androgen production thereby treating the individual. In aspects of this embodiment a disorder associated with androgen production includes without limitation a disorder associated with steroid hydroxy dehydrogenase activity a disorder associated with HSD17B activity and a disorder associated with HSD17B10 activity.

Aspects of the present specification disclose in part a method of treating an individual with a cancer. In one embodiment the method comprises the step of administering to an individual in need thereof a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine disclosed herein and a pharmaceutically acceptable conjugated fatty acid disclosed herein wherein administration reduces a symptom of a cancer thereby treating the individual. The benzo iso oxazolepiperidine disclosed herein and a pharmaceutically acceptable conjugated fatty acid disclosed herein may be administered sequentially or simultaneously. When administered simultaneously the benzo iso oxazolepiperidine disclosed herein and a pharmaceutically acceptable conjugated fatty acid disclosed herein may be formulated as separate compositions or as a single composition. In one embodiment the method comprises the step of administering to an individual in need thereof a pharmaceutical composition disclosed herein wherein administration reduces a symptom of a cancer thereby treating the individual.

In one embodiment a disorder associated with androgen production may be a hormone sensitive or hormone dependent disorder such as e.g. a hormone sensitive or hormone dependent cancer a hormone sensitive or hormone dependent non cancerous cell proliferation disorder or a hormone sensitive or hormone dependent non cell proliferation disorder. Examples of a hormone sensitive or hormone dependent cancer include without limitation a prostate cancer a testicular cancer a breast cancer an endometrial cancer an ovarian cancer a lung cancer a thyroid cancer a pancreatic cancer an adenocarcinoma a neuroendocrine cancer and a bone cancer. Examples of a hormone sensitive or hormone dependent non cancerous cell proliferation disorder include without limitation a uterine fibroid a fibrocystic breast disease an ovarian cyst a polycystic ovary syndrome and prostate enlargement like benign prostatic hyperplasia BPH . Examples of a hormone sensitive or hormone dependent non cell proliferation disorder include without limitation an acne vulgaris a seborrhea a female hirsutism abnormal uterine bleeding amenorrhoea premenstrual syndrome PMS endometriosis adenomyosis and an alopecia.

An adenocarcinoma is a tumor of epithelial tissue that has glandular origin glandular characteristics or both. Examples of an adenocarcinoma include without limitation an esophageal cancer a pancreatic cancer a prostate cancer a cervical cancer a stomach cancer a throat cancer a non small cell lung cancer a ductal carcinoma of the breast including invasive ductal carcinoma and ductal carcinoma in situ a lobular carcinoma of the breast including an invasive lobular carcinoma a colorectal cancer adenocarcinoma of the lung including large cell lung cancer squamous cell lung cancer small cell lung cancer bronchioloalveolar lung cancer non small cell lung cancer cholangiocarcinoma and vaginal cancer.

Aspects of the present specification disclose in part treating an individual suffering from a disorder associated with androgen production. As used herein the term treating refers to reducing or eliminating in an individual a clinical symptom of a disorder associated with androgen production or delaying or preventing in an individual the onset of a clinical symptom of a disorder associated with androgen production. For example the term treating can mean reducing a symptom of a disorder associated with androgen production by e.g. at least 20 at least 25 at least 30 at least 35 at least 40 at least 45 at least 50 at least 55 at least 60 at least 65 at least 70 at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 at least 95 or at least 100 . As another example the term treating can mean controlling a symptom of a disorder associated with androgen production such as e.g. reducing the number of symptoms per given time period and or the severity of a symptom. The actual symptoms associated with a disorder associated with androgen production are well known and can be determined by a person of ordinary skill in the art by taking into account factors including without limitation the location of the disorder associated with androgen production the cause of the disorder associated with androgen production the severity of the disorder associated with androgen production and or the cells tissue or organ affected by the disorder associated with androgen production. Those of skill in the art will know the appropriate symptoms or indicators associated with a specific type of a disorder associated with androgen production and will know how to determine if an individual is a candidate for treatment as disclosed herein.

The actual symptoms of a disorder associated with androgen production are well known and can be determined by a person of ordinary skill in the art by taking into account factors including without limitation the location of the disorder associated with androgen production the cause of the disorder associated with androgen production the severity of the disorder associated with androgen production the cell tissue and or organ affected by the disorder associated with androgen production. For example a disorder associated with androgen production may cause one or more of the following symptoms urinary hesitancy frequent urination dysuria painful urination increased risk of urinary tract infections and urinary retention abnormal bleeding inflammation abnormal hair growth pain sexual dysfunction.

Aspects of the present invention provide in part reducing a symptom associated with a hormone sensitive or hormone dependent cancer. A treatment using the disclosed therapeutic compounds and compositions disclosed herein may decrease the growth rate of tumor cells decrease the cell division rate of tumor cells decrease the extent of invasion of tumor cells into adjacent tissue or organs decrease the extent of metastasis decrease angiogenesis increase apoptosis increase tumor cell death increase tumor cell necrosis or any combination thereof.

Aspects of the present invention provide in part reducing a symptom associated with a hormone sensitive or hormone dependent non cancerous cell proliferation disorder. A treatment using the disclosed therapeutic compounds and compositions disclosed herein may decrease hyperplasia decrease the growth rate of hyperproliferating cells decrease the cell division rate of hyperproliferating cells decrease the extent to which hyperproliferating cells becomes cancerous decrease angiogenesis decrease nodule formation decrease cyst formation increase apoptosis increase tumor cell death and or increase tumor cell necrosis or any combination thereof.

Aspects of the present invention provide in part reducing a symptom associated with a hormone sensitive or hormone dependent non cancerous cell proliferation disorder. A treatment using the disclosed therapeutic compounds and compositions disclosed herein may improve at least one hair attribute including without limitation increase hair length increase hair thickness increase new hair growth increase hair growth rate increase hair number increase conversion of intermediate hair into terminal hair increase hair density increase number of hairs per follicle and or increase hair pigmentation increase hair melanization or any combination thereof.

A composition or compound is administered to an individual. An individual is typically a human being. Typically any individual who is a candidate for a conventional treatment is a candidate for a disorder associated with androgen production treatment disclosed herein. Pre operative evaluation typically includes routine history and physical examination in addition to thorough informed consent disclosing all relevant risks and benefits of the procedure.

A pharmaceutical composition disclosed herein may comprise a therapeutic compound in a therapeutically effective amount. As used herein the term effective amount is synonymous with therapeutically effective amount effective dose or therapeutically effective dose and when used in reference to treating a disorder associated with androgen production refers to the minimum dose of a therapeutic compound disclosed herein necessary to achieve the desired therapeutic effect and includes a dose sufficient to reduce a symptom associated with a disorder associated with androgen production. The effectiveness of a therapeutic compound disclosed herein in treating a disorder associated with androgen production can be determined by observing an improvement in an individual based upon one or more clinical symptoms and or physiological indicators associated with the disorder associated with androgen production. An improvement in a disorder associated with androgen production also can be indicated by a reduced need for a concurrent therapy.

The appropriate effective amount of a therapeutic compound disclosed herein to be administered to an individual for a particular disorder associated with androgen production can be determined by a person of ordinary skill in the art by taking into account factors including without limitation the type of the disorder associated with androgen production the location of the disorder associated with androgen production the cause of the disorder associated with androgen production the severity of the disorder associated with androgen production the degree of relief desired the duration of relief desired the particular therapeutic compound used the rate of excretion of the therapeutic compound used the pharmacodynamics of the therapeutic compound used the nature of the other compounds to be included in the composition the particular formulation desired the particular route of administration the particular characteristics history and risk factors of the patient such as e.g. age weight general health and the like or any combination thereof. Additionally where repeated administration of a therapeutic compound is used an effective amount of a therapeutic compound will further depend upon factors including without limitation the frequency of administration the half life of the therapeutic compound or any combination thereof. In is known by a person of ordinary skill in the art that an effective amount of a therapeutic compound disclosed herein can be extrapolated from in vitro assays and in vivo administration studies using animal models prior to administration to humans.

Wide variations in the necessary effective amount are to be expected in view of the differing efficiencies of the various routes of administration. For instance oral administration of a therapeutic compound disclosed herein generally would be expected to require higher dosage levels than administration by inhalation. Similarly systemic administration of a therapeutic compound disclosed herein would be expected to require higher dosage levels than a local administration. Variations in these dosage levels can be adjusted using standard empirical routines of optimization which are well known to a person of ordinary skill in the art. The precise therapeutically effective dosage levels and patterns are preferably determined by the attending physician in consideration of the above identified factors. One skilled in the art will recognize that the condition of the individual can be monitored throughout the course of therapy and that the effective amount of a therapeutic compound disclosed herein that is administered can be adjusted accordingly.

In aspects of this embodiment a therapeutically effective amount of a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces a symptom associated with a disorder associated with androgen production by e.g. at least 10 at least 15 at least 20 at least 25 at least 30 at least 35 at least 40 at least 45 at least 50 at least 55 at least 60 at least 65 at least 70 at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 at least 95 or at least 100 . In other aspects of this embodiment a therapeutically effective amount of a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces a symptom associated with a disorder associated with androgen production by e.g. at most 10 at most 15 at most 20 at most 25 at most 30 at most 35 at most 40 at most 45 at most 50 at most 55 at most 60 at most 65 at most 70 at most 75 at most 80 at most 85 at most 90 at most 95 or at most 100 . In yet other aspects of this embodiment a therapeutically effective amount of a therapeutic compound disclosed herein reduces a symptom associated with a disorder associated with androgen production by e.g. about 10 to about 100 about 10 to about 90 about 10 to about 80 about 10 to about 70 about 10 to about 60 about 10 to about 50 about 10 to about 40 about 20 to about 100 about 20 to about 90 about 20 to about 80 about 20 to about 20 about 20 to about 60 about 20 to about 50 about 20 to about 40 about 30 to about 100 about 30 to about 90 about 30 to about 80 about 30 to about 70 about 30 to about 60 or about 30 to about 50 .

In aspects of this embodiment a therapeutically effective amount of a therapeutic compound disclosed herein generally is in the range of about 0.01 mg kg day to about 50 mg kg day. In other aspects of this embodiment an effective amount of a therapeutic compound disclosed herein may be e.g. at least 0.01 mg kg day at least 0.025 mg kg day at least 0.05 mg kg day at least 0.075 mg kg day at least 0.1 mg kg day at least 0.25 mg kg day at least 0.5 mg kg day at least 0.75 mg kg day at least 1.0 mg kg day at least 2.5 mg kg day at least 5.0 mg kg day at least 7.5 mg kg day at least 10 mg kg day at least 25 mg kg day or at least 50 mg kg day. In yet other aspects of this embodiment an effective amount of a therapeutic compound disclosed herein may be e.g. at least 0.1 mg kg day at least 0.2 mg kg day at least 0.3 mg kg day at least 0.4 mg kg day at least 0.5 mg kg day at least 0.6 mg kg day at least 0.7 mg kg day at least 0.8 mg kg day at least 0.9 mg kg day at least 1.0 mg kg day at least 1.25 mg kg day at least 1.5 mg kg day at least 1.75 mg kg day at least 2.0 mg kg day at least 2.25 mg kg day at least 2.5 mg kg day at least 2.75 mg kg day at least 3.0 mg kg day at least 3.25 mg kg day at least 3.5 mg kg day at least 3.75 mg kg day at least 4.0 mg kg day at least 4.25 mg kg day at least 4.5 mg kg day at least 4.75 mg kg day or at least 5.0 mg kg day. In yet other aspects of this embodiment an effective amount of a therapeutic compound disclosed herein may be e.g. about 0.01 mg kg day to about 0.1 mg kg day about 0.01 mg kg day to about 0.5 mg kg day about 0.01 mg kg day to about 1 mg kg day about 0.01 mg kg day to about 5 mg kg day about 0.01 mg kg day to about 10 mg kg day about 0.1 mg kg day to about 0.1 mg kg day about 0.1 mg kg day to about 0.5 mg kg day about 0.1 mg kg day to about 1 mg kg day about 0.1 mg kg day to about 5 mg kg day or about 0.1 mg kg day to about 10 mg kg day.

In aspects of this embodiment a therapeutically effective amount of a therapeutic compound disclosed herein generally is in the range of about 1 mg day to about 500 mg day. In other aspects of this embodiment an effective amount of a therapeutic compound disclosed herein may be e.g. at least 1 mg day at least 5 mg day at least 10 mg day at least 25 mg day at least 50 mg day at least 75 mg day at least 100 mg day at least 150 mg day at least 200 mg day at least 250 mg day at least 300 mg day at least 350 mg day at least 400 mg day at least 450 mg day or at least 500 mg day. In yet other aspects of this embodiment an effective amount of a therapeutic compound disclosed herein may be e.g. about 1 mg day to about 100 mg day about 1 mg day to about 150 mg day about 1 mg day to about 200 mg day about 1 mg day to about 250 mg day about 1 mg day to about 300 mg day about 1 mg day to about 350 mg day about 1 mg day to about 400 mg day about 1 mg day to about 450 mg day about 1 mg day to about 500 mg day about 10 mg day to about 100 mg day about 10 mg day to about 150 mg day about 10 mg day to about 200 mg day about 10 mg day to about 250 mg day about 10 mg day to about 300 mg day about 10 mg day to about 350 mg day about 10 mg day to about 400 mg day about 10 mg day to about 450 mg day or about 10 mg day to about 500 mg day.

In aspects of this embodiment a therapeutically effective amount of a therapeutic compound disclosed herein generally is in the range of about 1 M day to about 1 000 M day. In other aspects of this embodiment an effective amount of a therapeutic compound disclosed herein may be e.g. at least 1 M day at least 5 M day at least 10 M day at least 50 M day at least 100 M day at least 200 M day at least 300 M day at least 400 M day at least 500 M day at least 600 M day at least 700 M day at least 800 M day at least 900 M day or at least 1 000 M day. In yet other aspects of this embodiment an effective amount of a therapeutic compound disclosed herein may be e.g. about 1 M day to about 100 M day about 1 M day to about 200 M day about 1 M day to about 400 M day about 1 M day to about 600 M day about 1 M day to about 800 M day about 1 M day to about 1 000 M day about 10 M day to about 100 M day about 10 M day to about 200 M day about 10 M day to about 400 M day about 10 M day to about 600 M day about 10 M day to about 800 M day about 10 M day to about 1 000 M day about 25 M day to about 100 M day about 25 M day to about 200 M day about 25 M day to about 400 M day about 25 M day to about 600 M day about 25 M day to about 800 M day or about 25 M day to about 1 000 M day.

In aspects of this embodiment a therapeutically effective amount of a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine disclosed herein generally is in the range of about 0.01 mg kg day to about 10 mg kg day. In other aspects of this embodiment an effective amount of a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine disclosed herein may be e.g. at least 0.01 mg kg day at least 0.025 mg kg day at least 0.05 mg kg day at least 0.075 mg kg day at least 0.1 mg kg day at least 0.25 mg kg day at least 0.5 mg kg day at least 0.75 mg kg day at least 1.0 mg kg day at least 2.5 mg kg day at least 5.0 mg kg day at least 7.5 mg kg day or at least 10 mg kg day. In yet other aspects of this embodiment an effective amount of a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine disclosed herein may be e.g. about 0.01 mg kg day to about 0.1 mg kg day about 0.01 mg kg day to about 0.25 mg kg day about 0.01 mg kg day to about 0.5 mg kg day about 0.01 mg kg day to about 0.75 mg kg day about 0.01 mg kg day to about 1 mg kg day about 0.01 mg kg day to about 1 mg kg day about 0.01 mg kg day to about 2.5 mg kg day about 0.01 mg kg day to about 5 mg kg day about 0.01 mg kg day to about 10 mg kg day about 0.05 mg kg day to about 0.1 mg kg day about 0.05 mg kg day to about 0.25 mg kg day about 0.05 mg kg day to about 0.5 mg kg day about 0.05 mg kg day to about 0.75 mg kg day about 0.05 mg kg day to about 1 mg kg day about 0.05 mg kg day to about 1 mg kg day about 0.05 mg kg day to about 2.5 mg kg day about 0.05 mg kg day to about 5 mg kg day about 0.05 mg kg day to about 10 mg kg day about 0.1 mg kg day to about 0.25 mg kg day about 0.1 mg kg day to about 0.5 mg kg day about 0.1 mg kg day to about 0.75 mg kg day about 0.1 mg kg day to about 1 mg kg day about 0.1 mg kg day to about 2.5 mg kg day about 0.1 mg kg day to about 5 mg kg day about 0.1 mg kg day to about 10 mg kg day about 0.5 mg kg day to about 0.75 mg kg day about 0.5 mg kg day to about 1 mg kg day about 0.5 mg kg day to about 2.5 mg kg day about 0.5 mg kg day to about 5 mg kg day or about 0.5 mg kg day to about 10 mg kg day.

In aspects of this embodiment a therapeutically effective amount of a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine disclosed herein generally is in the range of about 0.1 mg day to about 100 mg day. In other aspects of this embodiment an effective amount of a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine disclosed herein may be e.g. at least 0.1 mg day at least 0.5 mg day at least 1 mg day at least 2.5 mg day at least 5 mg day at least 7.5 mg day at least 10 mg day at least 20 mg day at least 30 mg day at least 40 mg day at least 50 mg day at least 60 mg day at least 70 mg day at least 80 mg day at least 90 mg day or at least 100 mg day. In yet other aspects of this embodiment an effective amount of a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine disclosed herein may be e.g. about 0.1 mg day to about 10 mg day about 0.1 mg day to about 12.5 mg day about 0.1 mg day to about 15 mg day about 0.1 mg day to about 17.5 mg day about 0.1 mg day to about 20 mg day about 0.1 mg day to about 30 mg day about 0.1 mg day to about 40 mg day about 0.1 mg day to about 60 mg day about 0.1 mg day to about 80 mg day about 0.1 mg day to about 100 mg day about 0.5 mg day to about 10 mg day about 0.5 mg day to about 12.5 mg day about 0.5 mg day to about 15 mg day about 0.5 mg day to about 17.5 mg day about 0.5 mg day to about 20 mg day about 0.5 mg day to about 30 mg day about 0.5 mg day to about 40 mg day about 0.5 mg day to about 60 mg day about 0.5 mg day to about 80 mg day about 0.5 mg day to about 100 mg day about 1 mg day to about 10 mg day about 1 mg day to about 12.5 mg day about 1 mg day to about 15 mg day about 1 mg day to about 17.5 mg day about 1 mg day to about 20 mg day about 1 mg day to about 30 mg day about 1 mg day to about 40 mg day about 1 mg day to about 60 mg day about 1 mg day to about 80 mg day about 1 mg day to about 100 mg day about 2.5 mg day to about 10 mg day about 2.5 mg day to about 20 mg day about 2.5 mg day to about 40 mg day about 2.5 mg day to about 60 mg day about 2.5 mg day to about 80 mg day or about 2.5 mg day to about 100 mg day.

In aspects of this embodiment a therapeutically effective amount of a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine disclosed herein generally is in the range of about 1 M day to about 1 000 M day. In other aspects of this embodiment an effective amount of a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine disclosed herein may be e.g. at least 1 M day at least 5 M day at least 10 M day at least 50 M day at least 100 M day at least 200 M day at least 300 M day at least 400 M day at least 500 M day at least 600 M day at least 700 M day at least 800 M day at least 900 M day or at least 1 000 M day. In yet other aspects of this embodiment an effective amount of a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine disclosed herein may be e.g. about 1 M day to about 100 M day about 1 M day to about 200 M day about 1 M day to about 400 M day about 1 M day to about 600 M day about 1 M day to about 800 M day about 1 M day to about 1 000 M day about 10 M day to about 100 M day about 10 M day to about 200 M day about 10 M day to about 400 M day about 10 M day to about 600 M day about 10 M day to about 800 M day about 10 M day to about 1 000 M day about 25 M day to about 100 M day about 25 M day to about 200 M day about 25 M day to about 400 M day about 25 M day to about 600 M day about 25 M day to about 800 M day or about 25 M day to about 1 000 M day.

In aspects of this embodiment in conjunction with a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine disclosed herein a therapeutically effective amount of a fatty acid disclosed herein generally is in the range of about 0.01 mg kg day to about 10 mg kg day. In other aspects of this embodiment in conjunction with a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine disclosed herein an effective amount of a fatty acid disclosed herein may be e.g. at least 0.01 mg kg day at least 0.025 mg kg day at least 0.05 mg kg day at least 0.075 mg kg day at least 0.1 mg kg day at least 0.25 mg kg day at least 0.5 mg kg day at least 0.75 mg kg day at least 1.0 mg kg day at least 2.5 mg kg day at least 5.0 mg kg day at least 7.5 mg kg day or at least 10 mg kg day. In yet other aspects of this embodiment in conjunction with a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine disclosed herein an effective amount of a fatty acid disclosed herein may be e.g. about 0.01 mg kg day to about 0.1 mg kg day about 0.01 mg kg day to about 0.25 mg kg day about 0.01 mg kg day to about 0.5 mg kg day about 0.01 mg kg day to about 0.75 mg kg day about 0.01 mg kg day to about 1 mg kg day about 0.01 mg kg day to about 1 mg kg day about 0.01 mg kg day to about 2.5 mg kg day about 0.01 mg kg day to about 5 mg kg day about 0.01 mg kg day to about 10 mg kg day about 0.05 mg kg day to about 0.1 mg kg day about 0.05 mg kg day to about 0.25 mg kg day about 0.05 mg kg day to about 0.5 mg kg day about 0.05 mg kg day to about 0.75 mg kg day about 0.05 mg kg day to about 1 mg kg day about 0.05 mg kg day to about 1 mg kg day about 0.05 mg kg day to about 2.5 mg kg day about 0.05 mg kg day to about 5 mg kg day about 0.05 mg kg day to about 10 mg kg day about 0.1 mg kg day to about 0.25 mg kg day about 0.1 mg kg day to about 0.5 mg kg day about 0.1 mg kg day to about 0.75 mg kg day about 0.1 mg kg day to about 1 mg kg day about 0.1 mg kg day to about 2.5 mg kg day about 0.1 mg kg day to about 5 mg kg day about 0.1 mg kg day to about 10 mg kg day about 0.5 mg kg day to about 0.75 mg kg day about 0.5 mg kg day to about 1 mg kg day about 0.5 mg kg day to about 2.5 mg kg day about 0.5 mg kg day to about 5 mg kg day or about 0.5 mg kg day to about 10 mg kg day.

In aspects of this embodiment in conjunction with a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine disclosed herein a therapeutically effective amount of a fatty acid disclosed herein generally is in the range of about 0.1 mg day to about 100 mg day. In other aspects of this embodiment an effective amount of a fatty acid disclosed herein may be e.g. at least 0.1 mg day at least 0.5 mg day at least 1 mg day at least 5 mg day at least 10 mg day at least 20 mg day at least 30 mg day at least 40 mg day at least 50 mg day at least 60 mg day at least 70 mg day at least 80 mg day at least 90 mg day or at least 100 mg day. In yet other aspects of this embodiment in conjunction with a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine disclosed herein an effective amount of a fatty acid disclosed herein may be e.g. about 0.1 mg day to about 10 mg day about 0.1 mg day to about 12.5 mg day about 0.1 mg day to about 15 mg day about 0.1 mg day to about 17.5 mg day about 0.1 mg day to about 20 mg day about 0.1 mg day to about 30 mg day about 0.1 mg day to about 40 mg day about 0.1 mg day to about 60 mg day about 0.1 mg day to about 80 mg day about 0.1 mg day to about 100 mg day about 0.5 mg day to about 10 mg day about 0.5 mg day to about 12.5 mg day about 0.5 mg day to about 15 mg day about 0.5 mg day to about 17.5 mg day about 0.5 mg day to about 20 mg day about 0.5 mg day to about 30 mg day about 0.5 mg day to about 40 mg day about 0.5 mg day to about 60 mg day about 0.5 mg day to about 80 mg day about 0.5 mg day to about 100 mg day about 1 mg day to about 10 mg day about 1 mg day to about 12.5 mg day about 1 mg day to about 15 mg day about 1 mg day to about 17.5 mg day about 1 mg day to about 20 mg day about 1 mg day to about 30 mg day about 1 mg day to about 40 mg day about 1 mg day to about 60 mg day about 1 mg day to about 80 mg day about 1 mg day to about 100 mg day about 2.5 mg day to about 10 mg day about 2.5 mg day to about 20 mg day about 2.5 mg day to about 40 mg day about 2.5 mg day to about 60 mg day about 2.5 mg day to about 80 mg day or about 2.5 mg day to about 100 mg day.

In aspects of this embodiment in conjunction with a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine disclosed herein a therapeutically effective amount of a fatty acid disclosed herein generally is in the range of about 1 M day to about 1 000 M day. In other aspects of this embodiment an effective amount of a fatty acid disclosed herein may be e.g. at least 1 M day at least 5 M day at least 10 M day at least 50 M day at least 100 M day at least 200 M day at least 300 M day at least 400 M day at least 500 M day at least 600 M day at least 700 M day at least 800 M day at least 900 M day or at least 1 000 M day. In yet other aspects of this embodiment in conjunction with a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine disclosed herein an effective amount of a fatty acid disclosed herein may be e.g. about 1 M day to about 100 M day about 1 M day to about 200 M day about 1 M day to about 400 M day about 1 M day to about 600 M day about 1 M day to about 800 M day about 1 M day to about 1 000 M day about 10 M day to about 100 M day about 10 M day to about 200 M day about 10 M day to about 400 M day about 10 M day to about 600 M day about 10 M day to about 800 M day about 10 M day to about 1 000 M day about 25 M day to about 100 M day about 25 M day to about 200 M day about 25 M day to about 400 M day about 25 M day to about 600 M day about 25 M day to about 800 M day or about 25 M day to about 1 000 M day.

In aspects of this embodiment in conjunction with a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine disclosed herein a therapeutically effective amount of a 5 reductase inhibitor disclosed herein generally is in the range of about 0.01 mg kg day to about 10 mg kg day. In other aspects of this embodiment in conjunction with a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine disclosed herein an effective amount of a 5 reductase inhibitor disclosed herein may be e.g. at least 0.01 mg kg day at least 0.025 mg kg day at least 0.05 mg kg day at least 0.075 mg kg day at least 0.1 mg kg day at least 0.25 mg kg day at least 0.5 mg kg day at least 0.75 mg kg day at least 1.0 mg kg day at least 2.5 mg kg day at least 5.0 mg kg day at least 7.5 mg kg day or at least 10 mg kg day. In yet other aspects of this embodiment in conjunction with a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine disclosed herein an effective amount of a 5 reductase inhibitor disclosed herein may be e.g. about 0.01 mg kg day to about 0.1 mg kg day about 0.01 mg kg day to about 0.25 mg kg day about 0.01 mg kg day to about 0.5 mg kg day about 0.01 mg kg day to about 0.75 mg kg day about 0.01 mg kg day to about 1 mg kg day about 0.01 mg kg day to about 1 mg kg day about 0.01 mg kg day to about 2.5 mg kg day about 0.01 mg kg day to about 5 mg kg day about 0.01 mg kg day to about 10 mg kg day about 0.05 mg kg day to about 0.1 mg kg day about 0.05 mg kg day to about 0.25 mg kg day about 0.05 mg kg day to about 0.5 mg kg day about 0.05 mg kg day to about 0.75 mg kg day about 0.05 mg kg day to about 1 mg kg day about 0.05 mg kg day to about 1 mg kg day about 0.05 mg kg day to about 2.5 mg kg day about 0.05 mg kg day to about 5 mg kg day about 0.05 mg kg day to about 10 mg kg day about 0.1 mg kg day to about 0.25 mg kg day about 0.1 mg kg day to about 0.5 mg kg day about 0.1 mg kg day to about 0.75 mg kg day about 0.1 mg kg day to about 1 mg kg day about 0.1 mg kg day to about 2.5 mg kg day about 0.1 mg kg day to about 5 mg kg day about 0.1 mg kg day to about 10 mg kg day about 0.5 mg kg day to about 0.75 mg kg day about 0.5 mg kg day to about 1 mg kg day about 0.5 mg kg day to about 2.5 mg kg day about 0.5 mg kg day to about 5 mg kg day or about 0.5 mg kg day to about 10 mg kg day.

In aspects of this embodiment in conjunction with a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine disclosed herein a therapeutically effective amount of a 5 reductase inhibitor disclosed herein generally is in the range of about 0.1 mg day to about 100 mg day. In other aspects of this embodiment in conjunction with a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine disclosed herein an effective amount of a 5 reductase inhibitor disclosed herein may be e.g. at least 0.1 mg day at least 0.5 mg day at least 1 mg day at least 5 mg day at least 10 mg day at least 20 mg day at least 30 mg day at least 40 mg day at least 50 mg day at least 60 mg day at least 70 mg day at least 80 mg day at least 90 mg day or at least 100 mg day. In yet other aspects of this embodiment in conjunction with a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine disclosed herein an effective amount of a 5 reductase inhibitor disclosed herein may be e.g. about 0.1 mg day to about 10 mg day about 0.1 mg day to about 12.5 mg day about 0.1 mg day to about 15 mg day about 0.1 mg day to about 17.5 mg day about 0.1 mg day to about 20 mg day about 0.1 mg day to about 30 mg day about 0.1 mg day to about 40 mg day about 0.1 mg day to about 60 mg day about 0.1 mg day to about 80 mg day about 0.1 mg day to about 100 mg day about 0.5 mg day to about 10 mg day about 0.5 mg day to about 12.5 mg day about 0.5 mg day to about 15 mg day about 0.5 mg day to about 17.5 mg day about 0.5 mg day to about 20 mg day about 0.5 mg day to about 30 mg day about 0.5 mg day to about 40 mg day about 0.5 mg day to about 60 mg day about 0.5 mg day to about 80 mg day about 0.5 mg day to about 100 mg day about 1 mg day to about 10 mg day about 1 mg day to about 12.5 mg day about 1 mg day to about 15 mg day about 1 mg day to about 17.5 mg day about 1 mg day to about 20 mg day about 1 mg day to about 30 mg day about 1 mg day to about 40 mg day about 1 mg day to about 60 mg day about 1 mg day to about 80 mg day about 1 mg day to about 100 mg day about 2.5 mg day to about 10 mg day about 2.5 mg day to about 20 mg day about 2.5 mg day to about 40 mg day about 2.5 mg day to about 60 mg day about 2.5 mg day to about 80 mg day or about 2.5 mg day to about 100 mg day.

In aspects of this embodiment in conjunction with a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine disclosed herein a therapeutically effective amount of a 5 reductase inhibitor disclosed herein generally is in the range of about 1 M day to about 1 000 M day. In other aspects of this embodiment in conjunction with a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine disclosed herein an effective amount of a 5 reductase inhibitor disclosed herein may be e.g. at least 1 M day at least 5 M day at least 10 M day at least 50 M day at least 100 M day at least 200 M day at least 300 M day at least 400 M day at least 500 M day at least 600 M day at least 700 M day at least 800 M day at least 900 M day or at least 1 000 M day. In yet other aspects of this embodiment in conjunction with a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine disclosed herein an effective amount of a 5 reductase inhibitor disclosed herein may be e.g. about 1 M day to about 100 M day about 1 M day to about 200 M day about 1 M day to about 400 M day about 1 M day to about 600 M day about 1 M day to about 800 M day about 1 M day to about 1 000 M day about 10 M day to about 100 M day about 10 M day to about 200 M day about 10 M day to about 400 M day about 10 M day to about 600 M day about 10 M day to about 800 M day about 10 M day to about 1 000 M day about 25 M day to about 100 M day about 25 M day to about 200 M day about 25 M day to about 400 M day about 25 M day to about 600 M day about 25 M day to about 800 M day or about 25 M day to about 1 000 M day.

Dosing can be single dosage or cumulative serial dosing and can be readily determined by one skilled in the art. For instance treatment of a disorder associated with androgen production may comprise a one time administration of an effective dose of a pharmaceutical composition disclosed herein. Alternatively treatment of a disorder associated with androgen production may comprise multiple administrations of an effective dose of a pharmaceutical composition carried out over a range of time periods such as e.g. once daily twice daily trice daily once every few days or once weekly. The timing of administration can vary from individual to individual depending upon such factors as the severity of an individual s symptoms. For example an effective dose of a pharmaceutical composition disclosed herein can be administered to an individual once daily for an indefinite period of time or until the individual no longer requires therapy. A person of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the condition of the individual can be monitored throughout the course of treatment and that the effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition disclosed herein that is administered can be adjusted accordingly.

Various routes of administration can be useful for administering a therapeutic compound disclosed herein according to a method of treating a disorder associated with androgen production disclosed herein. A pharmaceutical composition may be administered to an individual by any of a variety of means depending e.g. on the type of the disorder associated with androgen production to be treated the location of the disorder associated with androgen production to be treated the specific therapeutic compound or composition used or other compound to be included in the composition and the history risk factors and symptoms of the individual. As such topical enteral or parenteral routes of administration may be suitable for of treating a disorder associated with androgen production disclosed herein and such routes include both local and systemic delivery of a therapeutic compound or composition disclosed herein. Compositions comprising either a single therapeutic compound disclosed herein or two or more therapeutic compounds disclosed herein are intended for inhaled topical intranasal sublingual injection infusion instillation rectal and or vaginal use may be prepared according to any method known to the art for the manufacture of pharmaceutical compositions.

A pharmaceutical composition disclosed herein can be administered to an individual in a single formulation or in separate formulations for combined simultaneous or sequential administration. In one embodiment an individual is administered a first composition comprising a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine and a second composition comprising another therapeutic compound like a fatty acid a 5 reductase inhibitor a chemotherapeutic agent or an anti proliferative agent. In aspects of this embodiment an individual is administered a first composition comprising at least one benzo iso oxazolepiperidine and a second composition comprising at least one other therapeutic compound like a fatty acid a 5 reductase inhibitor a chemotherapeutic agent or an anti proliferative agent.

In another embodiment an individual is administered a composition comprising a benzo iso oxazolepiperidine and another therapeutic compound like a fatty acid a 5 reductase inhibitor a chemotherapeutic agent or an anti proliferative agent. In aspects of this embodiment an individual is administered a composition comprising at least one benzo iso oxazolepiperidine and at least one other therapeutic compound like a fatty acid a 5 reductase inhibitor a chemotherapeutic agent or an anti proliferative agent.

A pharmaceutical composition disclosed herein can also be administered to an individual in combination with other therapeutic compounds to increase the overall therapeutic effect of the treatment. The use of multiple compounds to treat an indication can increase the beneficial effects while reducing the presence of side effects.

The following non limiting examples are provided for illustrative purposes only in order to facilitate a more complete understanding of representative embodiments now contemplated. These examples should not be construed to limit any of the embodiments described in the present specification including those pertaining to the compounds pharmaceutical compositions or methods or uses of treating a disorder disclosed herein.

An HSD10 inhibition assay was performed to determine the effect of several anti psychotics on enzyme activity.

PC3 cells are from a cell line derived from a hormone refractory prostate cancer and are known to overexpress HSD10. PC3 cells were seeded at a density of 4 000 cells per well in a 96 well plate and incubated at 37 C. 5 COfor 48 hours in standard growth media F12K nutrient media 7 Fetal Calf Serum 2 mM L Glutamine 45 mg L ascorbic acid . The media was then removed by pipette and replaced with the appropriate drug treatment as follows 50 M Chlorpromazine a typical anti psychotic in PC3 treatment media F12K nutrient media 125 M fatty acid free BSA 2 mM L Glutamine 45 mg L ascorbic acid 50 M Clozapine an atypical anti psychotic in PC3 treatment media 50 M Clomipramine a tricyclic anti depressant in PC3 treatment media 50 M Risperidone an atypical anti psychotic in PC3 treatment media 50 M Diphenhydramine a sedative in PC3 treatment media. Cells line tests were carried out in presence and absence of testosterone for comparison. After incubation in the drug treatment for 96 hours at 37 C. 5 CO the supernatant was removed from all wells of cells and cells washed with 200 L PBS.

After removal of the PBS cell number was determined using a lysed cell LDH assay CytoTox 96 Non radioactive cytotoxicity assay LDH Assay Promega Co. Madison Wis. . Cells were lysed with 0.9 Triton X in PBS for 2 hours at 37 C. 5 COand 50 L of this cell lysate was transferred to a fresh 96 well plate. About 50 L of CytoTox 96 assay reagent was added to the transferred cell lysate and this mixture was incubated at room temperature in the dark for 20 minutes. After the addition of 50 L stop reagent the optical absorbance was determined for each incubated mixture at 492 nm. The percentage cell number was calculated by normalizing the experimental counts where 100 is set to cells receiving no drug treatment and 0 is set to readings from wells containing no cells. The mean and standard error was calculated from at least 3 wells.

As seen in Table 1 Risperidone showed an inhibitory effect on both oxidative 88 inhibition and reductive 63 inhibition performance of HSD10. No other drug tested appeared to have effectively inhibited both oxidative and reductive performance of HSD10.

A cell metabolism inhibition assay was performed to determine the effect of different fatty acids on cellular metabolic rate. The fatty acids tested were Linolenic acid omega 3 fatty acid ALA Arachidonic acid omega 6 fatty acid AA 9Z 11E conjugated Linoleic acid omega 7 fatty acid CLA Docosahexaenoic acid omega 3 fatty acid DHA Eicosapentaenoic acid omega 3 fatty acid EPA Oleic acid omega 9 fatty acid OA Ricinoleic acid omega 9 hydroxylated fatty acid RA .

PC3 cells are from a cell line derived from a hormone refractory prostate cancer and are known to overexpress HSD10. PC3 cells were seeded at a density of 4 000 cells per well in a 96 well plate and incubated at 37 C. 5 COfor 48 hours in standard growth media F12K nutrient media 7 Fetal Calf Serum 2 mM L Glutamine 45 mg L ascorbic acid . The media was then removed by pipette and replaced with the appropriate drug treatment as follows 20 M or 40 M or 60 M or 80 M or 100 M ALA in PC3 treatment media F12K nutrient media 125 uM fatty acid free BSA 2 mM L Glutamine 45 mg L ascorbic acid 20 M or 40 M or 60 M or 80 M or 100 M AA in PC3 treatment media 20 M or 40 M or 60 M or 80 M or 100 M CLA in PC3 treatment media 20 M or 40 M or 60 M or 80 M or 100 M DHA in PC3 treatment media 20 M or 40 M or 60 M or 80 M or 100 M EPA in PC3 treatment media 20 M or 40 M or 60 M or 80 M or 100 M OA in PC3 treatment media and 20 M or 40 M or 60 M or 80 M or 100 M RA in PC3 treatment media. After incubation in the drug treatment for 72 hours at 37 C. 5 CO 50 L Cell titre Blue Assay Reagent was added to each well and the plate return to incubation at 37 C. 5 CO for a further 24 hours at which time the absorbance at 620 nm was recorded. The reduction of absorbance at 620 nm represents a higher metabolic rate and the data below has been normalized such that 100 represents cells that have been grown in the presence of undrugged media and 0 represents wells containing no cells.

As seen in Table 2 AA CLA DHA and EPA showed a significant inhibitory effect on cellular metabolic activity. AA showed about 35 40 metabolic inhibition in the 80 100 M range. CLA showed at least about 35 40 metabolic inhibition in the 60 100 M range. DHA showed about 40 65 metabolic inhibition in the 60 100 M range. EPA showed about 50 65 metabolic inhibition in the 80 100 M range.

To determine whether Risperidone could be effective in inhibiting growth of cancer cells overexpressing HSD10 a lysed cell LDH assay was conducted using cells from a PC3 cell line.

PC3 cells are from a cell line derived from a hormone refractory prostate cancer and are known to overexpress HSD10. PC3 cells were seeded at a density of 4 000 cells per well in a 96 well plate and incubated at 37 C. 5 COfor 48 hours in standard growth media F12K nutrient media 7 Fetal Calf Serum 2 mM L Glutamine 45 mg L ascorbic acid . The media was then removed by pipette and replaced with the appropriate drug treatment as follows 12.5 M 25 M or 50 M Risperidone in PC3 treatment media F12K nutrient media 125 uM fatty acid free BSA 2 mM L Glutamine 45 mg L ascorbic acid 12.5 M 25 M or 50 M CLA in PC3 treatment media 12.5 M 25 M or 50 M DHA in PC3 treatment media 12.5 M Risperidone and 12.5 M CLA DHA or both CLA and DHA in PC3 treatment media 25 M Risperidone and 25 M CLA DHA or both CLA and DHA in PC3 treatment media and 50 M Risperidone and 50 M CLA DHA or both CLA and DHA in PC3 treatment media. Cells line tests were carried out in presence and absence of testosterone for comparison. After incubation in the drug treatment for 96 hours at 37 C. 5 CO the supernatant was removed from all wells of cells and cells washed with 200 L PBS.

After removal of the PBS cell number was determined using a lysed cell LDH assay CytoTox 96 Non radioactive cytotoxicity assay LDH Assay Promega Co. Madison Wis. . Cells were lysed with 0.9 Triton X in PBS for 2 hours at 37 C. 5 COand 50 L of this cell lysate was transferred to a fresh 96 well plate. About 50 L of CytoTox 96 assay reagent was added to the transferred cell lysate and this mixture was incubated at room temperature in the dark for 20 minutes. After the addition of 50 L stop reagent the optical absorbance was determined for each incubated mixture at 492 nm. The percentage cell number was calculated by normalizing the experimental counts where 100 is set to cells receiving no drug treatment and 0 is set to readings from wells containing no cells. The mean and standard error was calculated from at least 3 wells.

The results show that 50 M Risperidone exhibited about 50 growth inhibition of PC3 cells Table 3 . In addition although having no effect alone CLA in combination Risperidone had a synergistic effect inhibiting PC3 cell growth by over 60 .

To determine the optimal concentration of Risperidone and CLA necessary to inhibit cell growth a lysed cell LDH assay was conducted using various concentration of Risperidone and CLA. PC3 cells were cultured and a lysed cell LDH assay was conducted as described above except that the various drug treatments evaluated contained either 0 M 12.5 M 25 M or 50 M Risperidone in combination with 0 M 6.25 M 12.5 M 25 M 50 M or 100 M CLA see Table 3 .

The data demonstrated that combination treatments comprising 50 M Risperidone and either 50 or 100 M CLA exhibited about 65 growth inhibition of PC3 cells Table 4 . In addition 50 M Risperidone and 25 M CLA or 25 M Risperidone and 50 M CLA both exhibited about 50 growth inhibition of PC3 cells Table 4 . These inhibitory effects were all synergistic in nature since treatment containing either 25 M or 50 M Risperidone alone only inhibited cell growth by about 20 30 .

To determine whether Risperidone could be effective in inhibiting growth of cancer cells overexpressing HSD10 a lysed cell LDH assay was conducted using cells taken from a prostate cancer cell line a lung cancer cell line a breast cancer cell line an ovarian cancer cell line each of which was known to overexpress HSD10 and a non cancerous cell line.

To determine whether Risperidone alone or in combination with CLA could inhibit cell growth of cells taken from a prostate cancer cell line overexpressing HSD10 a lysed cell LDH assay was conducted on PC3 cells as described in Example 2 except that the various drug treatments evaluated contained 50 M Risperidone in PC3 treatment media 50 M CLA in PC3 treatment media 50 M Risperidone and 50 M CLA in PC3 treatment media 50 M Risperidone and 1 M Testosterone T in PC3 treatment media 50 M Risperidone 50 M CLA and 1 M Testosterone in PC3 treatment media.

To determine whether Risperidone alone or in combination with CLA could inhibit cell growth of cells taken from a lung cancer cell line overexpressing HSD10 A549 cells were seeded at a density of 2 000 cells per well in a 96 well plate and incubated at 37 C. 5 COfor 48 hours in standard growth media DMEM nutrient media 10 Fetal Calf Serum 2 mM L Glutamine . The media was then removed by pipette and replaced with the appropriate drug treatment as follows 50 M Risperidone in A459 treatment media DMEM nutrient media 125 uM fatty acid free BSA 2 mM L Glutamine 50 M CLA in A459 treatment media 50 M Risperidone and 50 M CLA in A459 treatment media 50 M Risperidone and 1 M Testosterone in A459 treatment media 50 M Risperidone 50 M CLA and 1 M Testosterone in A459 treatment media. After incubation in the drug treatment for 96 hours at 37 C. 5 CO the supernatant was removed from all wells of cells and cells washed with 200 L PBS.

To determine whether Risperidone alone or in combination with CLA could inhibit cell growth of cells taken from a breast cancer cell line overexpressing HSD10 MCF7 cells were seeded at a density of 4 000 cells per well in a 96 well plate and incubated at 37 C. 5 COfor 48 hours in standard growth media EMEM nutrient media 10 Fetal Calf Serum 2 mM L Glutamine 0.1 mM non essential amino acids . The media was then removed by pipette and replaced with the appropriate drug treatment as follows 50 M Risperidone in MCF7 treatment media EMEM nutrient media 125 uM fatty acid free BSA 2 mM L Glutamine 0.1 mM non essential amino acids 50 M CLA in MCF7 treatment media 50 M Risperidone and 50 M CLA in MCF7 treatment media 50 M Risperidone and 1 M Testosterone in MCF7 treatment media 50 M Risperidone 50 M CLA and 1 M Testosterone in MCF7 treatment media. After incubation in the drug treatment for 96 hours at 37 C. 5 CO the supernatant was removed from all wells of cells and cells washed with 200 L PBS.

To determine whether Risperidone alone or in combination with CLA could inhibit cell growth of cells taken from an ovarian cancer cell line overexpressing HSD10 OVCAR 3 cells were seeded at a density of 8 000 cells per well in a 96 well plate and incubated at 37 C. 5 COfor 48 hours in standard growth media RPMI 1640 nutrient media 20 Fetal Calf Serum 2 mM L Glutamine 0.01 mg mL insulin 4.5 g L glucose 10 mM HEPES 1 mM sodium pyruvate . The media was then removed by pipette and replaced with the appropriate drug treatment as follows 50 M Risperidone in OVCAR 3 treatment media RPMI 1640 nutrient media 0.5 Fetal Calf Serum 125 uM fatty acid free BSA 2 mM L Glutamine 0.01 mg mL insulin 4.5 g L glucose 10 mM HEPES 1 mM sodium pyruvate 50 M CLA in OVCAR 3 treatment media 50 M Risperidone and 50 M CLA in OVCAR 3 treatment media 50 M Risperidone and 1 M Testosterone in OVCAR 3 treatment media 50 M Risperidone 50 M CLA and 1 M Testosterone in OVCAR 3 treatment media. After incubation in the drug treatment for 96 hours at 37 C. 5 CO the supernatant was removed from all wells of cells and cells washed with 200 L PBS.

To determine whether Risperidone alone or in combination with CLA could inhibit cell growth of cells taken from a non cancerous cell line VERO cells derived from kidney cells were seeded at a density of 2 000 cells per well in a 96 well plate and incubated at 37 C. 5 COfor 48 hours in standard growth media EMEM nutrient media 10 Fetal Calf Serum 2 mM L Glutamine 1 mM sodium pyruvate . The media was then removed by pipette and replaced with the appropriate drug treatment as follows 50 M Risperidone in VERO treatment media EMEM nutrient media 125 uM fatty acid free BSA 2 mM L Glutamine 1 mM sodium pyruvate 50 M CLA in VERO treatment media 50 M Risperidone and 50 M CLA in VERO treatment media 50 M Risperidone and 1 M Testosterone in VERO treatment media 50 M Risperidone 50 M CLA and 1 M Testosterone in VERO treatment media. After incubation in the drug treatment for 96 hours at 37 C. 5 CO the supernatant was removed from all wells of cells and cells washed with 200 L PBS.

After removal of the PBS from the cell cultures described above cell number was determined using a lysed cell LDH assay. Cells were lysed with 0.9 Triton X in PBS for 2 hours at 37 C. 5 COand 50 L of this cell lysate was transferred to a fresh 96 well plate. About 50 L of CytoTox 96 assay reagent was added to the transferred cell lysate and this mixture was incubated at room temperature in the dark for 20 minutes. After the addition of 50 L stop reagent the optical absorbance was determined for each incubated mixture at 492 nm. The percentage cell number was calculated by normalizing the experimental counts where 100 is set to cells receiving no drug treatment and 0 is set to readings from wells containing no cells. The mean and standard error was calculated from at least 3 wells.

The results show that 50 M Risperidone exhibited about 50 growth inhibition of PC3 cells over 60 growth inhibition of A549 cells about 65 growth inhibition of MCF7 cells and about 35 growth inhibition of OVCAR 3 cells Table 3 . In addition CLA in combination Risperidone demonstrated a synergistic growth inhibition effect on most cancer cell lines tested. Thus 50 M Risperidone in combination with CLA exhibited over 60 growth inhibition of PC3 cells almost 100 growth inhibition of A549 cells and over 70 growth inhibition of MCF7 cells Table 3 . Importantly neither Risperidone nor CLA had any measurable effect on growth on cell from the non cancerous cell line VERO.

The results also show that the mechanism of action of Resperidone is related to Testosterone in that adding an external source of Testosterone to Risperidone treated cells partially negated the effect of the Risperidone alone. However in the presence of CLA Testosterone failed to negate the effect of the Risperidone. This suggests the CLA is acting on one Testosterone pathway and Risperidone on another Testosterone pathway. None of the cells from the cell lines tested responded to a 1 M Testosterone treatment without drug present.

To determine whether Risperidone alone or in combination with CLA could inhibit cell growth of cells taken from a pancreatic cancer cell line overexpressing HSD10 a resazurin based cell viability assay was conducted on Bx PC3 cells.

BxPC 3 cells are from a cell line derived from a human pancreatic adenocarcinoma and are known to overexpress HSD10. BxPC 3 cells were seeded at a density of 4 000 cells per well in a 384 well plate and incubated at 37 C. 5 COfor 24 hours in standard growth media RPMI nutrient media 5 heat inactivated Fetal Calf Serum 2 mM L Glutamine . The media was then removed by pipette and replaced with 50 L BxPC 3 treatment media comprising 125 M fatty acid free BSA 2 mM L Glutamine and one of the following drug treatments 0.1 M 2 M or 50 M Risperidone 0.1 M 2 M or 50 M CLA or 0.1 M 2 M or 50 M of Risperidone and CLA in equimolar amounts . After incubation in the drug treatment for 72 hours at 37 C. 5 CO viable cell number was determined using a resazurin based cell viability assay PRESTOBLUE Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. . To each well 7 L of PRESTOBLUE reagent was added and the plates incubated for 60 minutes at 37 C. 5 CO. After incubation the fluorescence intensity of each well was determined using a microplate reader by excitation and 570 nm and recording emission at 600 nm. The percentage of viable cell number was calculated by normalizing the experimental fluorescence intensity where 100 is set to cells receiving no drug treatment cells metabolizing at optimal rate and 0 is set to readings from cells treated with Paclitaxel cells not metabolizing at all due to their destruction by anti cancer drug . A value under 50 could be considered a useful indication of potential efficacy.

The results show that Risperidone alone inhibited cancer cell growth exhibited about 60 growth inhibition of Bx PC3 cells at 50 M Table 6 . Surprisingly although having no effect cytostatic or cytotoxic alone CLA in combination Risperidone had a synergistic effect with equimolar combinations inhibiting Bx PC3 cell growth by about 50 at 2 uM and about 84 at 50 uM.

In vivo studies were performed to determine the effect of Risperidone in combination with Rumenic acid on orthotopic prostate tumor growth in a mouse xenograft model utilizing novel luciferase labelled BxPC 3 cells. Immunodeficeint male mice athymic nude mice were acclimated to the laboratory for at least one week prior to implantation of tumor. PC 3M luc cells obtained directly from in vitro culture were then injected into the prostate on Day 0. Animals were divided into six groups of 12 mice each. Primary tumor size and metastases were assessed by bioluminescence measurements on day 6 13 20 27 34 and 40. On day 7 a five week treatment regime was initiated. Both individual drug and high and low dose combination were examined by administering the drugs twice daily on an individual body weight basis using a dose escalation protocol Table 7 . If tumors grew above a pre determined level or mice lost more than 10 of bodyweight they were culled. The primary tumor was excised weighed and measured. Individual organs were imaged to assess metastatic burden.

One parameter of increased efficacy measured was animal survival in each group both in terms of overall survival at the end of the study as well as survival rate. Group 1 animals were dosed on a vehicle and served as the negative control and exhibited an overall survivorship of 45 Table 8 . Group 6 animals were dosed on Docetaxel and served as the positive control this group showed 100 survival at day 40 Table 8 . Looking at the groups where only a single drug was administered Group 2 Risperidone showed an overall survivorship of 33 while Group 3 Rumenic Acid showed an overall survivorship of 45 Table 8 . These results indicate that administration of a single drug alone was ineffective in treating prostate cancer. On the other hand groups where a drug combination was administered revealed increased overall survivorship of animals. Animals from Group 4 and 5 were dosed low and high Risperidone and Rumenic Acid combinations. Group 4 animals showed an overall survivorship of 70 while Group 5 animals showed an overall survivorship of 64 Table 8 . These results demonstrate a synergistic interaction between Risperidone and Rumenic Acid as neither drug alone was effective yet in combination these drugs increased overall survival by at least 1.4 fold and as much as 2.1 fold. Thus both the low and high dose drug combinations exhibited increase efficacy by improving overall survivorship in the treated animals.

With regards to survival rate a decline in the survival of Group 1 Vehicle animals was observed by day 27 with an almost 20 animal loss and continued to drop steadily throughout the course of the study . Group 6 Docetaxel animals showed 100 survival throughout the course of the study . Similar to overall survivorship animals belonging to the groups where only a single drug was administered showed no real differences when compared to Group 1 animals negative control . For example animals from Group 2 Risperidone showed an onset delay of tumor lethality as a decrease in survivorship rate was pushed back to day 34 with only about 10 animal loss. However a rapid decrease of survive rate was then observed resulting in only 33 animal survivorship by day 40 . Similarly animals from Group 3 Rumenic Acid showed a decline in the survival rate by day 27. Although survival remained high with only about 10 animal loss by day 34 there was a sharp decline in survival rates until only 45 of the mice were alive by day 40 . In contrast both the onset of tumor lethality and the survival rate improved in animals treated with the combination therapy. For example a decline in survival rate was not observed until day 34 with about 10 Group 5 or 34 Group 4 loss of animals . By day 40 70 of the animals in Group 4 were alive whereas 64 of the animals in Group 5 were also alive . These results demonstrate that both the low and high dose drug combinations showed increase efficacy by increasing survival rates both in terms of delaying the onset of tumor lethality and well as improving the survival rate in the treated animals.

Another parameter of increased efficacy measured was growth inhibition of the prostate tumor. Group 1 Vehicle animals severing as the negative control showed no inhibition of tumor growth whereas Group 6 Docetaxel animals severing as the positive control showed a 94 inhibition of tumor growth Table 8 . Animal groups treated with a single drug regime showed little effect on tumor growth inhibition. Animals from Group 2 Risperidone showed only a 16 inhibition of tumor growth Table 8 . Similarly Group 3 Rumenic Acid animals showed only a 21 inhibition of tumor growth Table 8 . In contrast animal groups treated with both low and high dose drug combinations exhibited significant tumor growth inhibition. For example animals from Group 4 Low Dose showed 70 inhibition of tumor growth whereas animals from Group 5 High Dose showed 65 inhibition of tumor growth Table 8 . Analysis of tumor growth inhibition throughout the course of the study indicated that the rate of tumor growth inhibition was consistent . These results demonstrate that both the low and high dose drug combinations showed increase efficacy by dramatically inhibiting tumor growth.

Lastly the general health and overall condition of the animals in each group was assessed by monitoring body weight throughout the study. Groups 1 Vehicle and Group 6 Docetaxel animals were on a trend of losing weight by Day 40 whereas Group 4 animals gained weight and Groups 2 3 5 animals maintained a constant weight. These results showed that both the low and high dose drug combinations did not adversely affect the general health and overall condition of the animals. In contrast although demonstrating efficacy Docetaxel administration had adverse consequences on the general health and overall condition of the animals.

In vivo studies were performed to determine the effect of Risperidone in combination with Rumenic acid on orthotopic pancreatic tumor growth in a mouse xenograft model utilizing novel luciferase labelled BxPC 3 cells. Immunodeficeint male mice athymic nude mice were acclimated to the laboratory for at least one week prior to implantation of tumor. BxPC 3 cells obtained directly from in vitro culture were then injected into the pancreas on Day 0. Animals were divided into four groups of 10 mice each which underwent the following treatment regime Group 1 daily oral administration of vehicle comprising 1 v v ethanol 20 v v PEG 400 79 v v acid solution and 0.4 w v TWEEN 80 at a final pH of 3.1 3.3 Control Group 2 intraperitoneal administration of 60 mg kg of Reference Compound gemcitabine every third day for four rounds followed by one week rest before repeating the dosing Group 3 daily oral administration of 1 mg kg of Test Compound VAL401 and Group 4 daily administration of 2 mg kg Test Compound VAL401. Administration of Test and Reference Compounds began on Day 1 and continued until Day 33. Body weights of the animals were measured two times a week throughout the in life phase and blood samples for PK analyses were collected from saphenous vein from all animals 2 hours after compound administration at study Day 24. Primary tumor size and metastases were assessed by bioluminescence measurements on Day 6 13 20 27 and 34 using fluorescent imaging system. The animals were sacrificed at Day 34. At the termination brain tissues were collected and frozen. Tumors were weighed measured in three dimensions followed by fixation and embedding in paraffin for possible histopathological assessment. Also spleen liver and lungs were collected for possible analysis.

Statistical analysis was performed with statistical software R version 3.1.2 . The parameters with multiple measurements in different time points per animal were analyzed using mixed effects models and model contrasts. The models had fixed effects for treatment time point and their interaction. The obtained p values values were adjusted for multiple comparisons if necessary. The continuous valued end point parameters were analyzed using parametric or non parametric test. If the groups were normally distributed with equal variance parametric one way ANOVA followed by Tukey s HSD post hoc test was used. If the assumptions were not fulfilled as such or after data transform e.g. logarithmic nonparametric Kruskal Wallis test followed by Mann Whitney U test was used.

The summary of the results obtained are provided in Table 9. With respect to Group 2 treatment with gemcitabine did not have any effect on animal body weight gain compared to vehicle treatment Table 9 . Animals treated with Gemcitabine did exhibit a statistically significantly decreased pancreatic tumor volume when compared to vehicle group Table 9 . Although not statistically different when compared to vehicle group Gemcitabine treated animals also showed a trend in decreased pancreatic tumor weight as well as in the bioluminescence imaging parameters area average radiation and total flux on Day 34 Table 9 .

With respect to Group 3 and 4 treatment VAL401 at either dose did not have any effect on animal body weight gain compared to vehicle treatment Table 9 . Animals treated with VAL401 did exhibited a statistically significant decrease in pancreatic tumor volume in both studied doses and the same trend was seen in pancreatic tumor weight when compared to vehicle group Table 9 . In addition VAL401 treated animals showed a statistically significant decrease in bioluminescence imaging parameter evaluating area compared to vehicle group on Day 34 and the same trend was seen in in other bioluminescence imaging parameters average radiation and total flux Table 9 .

In vivo studies were performed to determine the effect of Risperidone in combination with Rumenic acid on a subcutaneous non small cell lung cancer tumor growth in a mouse xenograft model. MF1 female mice were acclimated to the laboratory for at least one week prior to implantation of tumor. H2228 cells obtained directly from in vitro culture were then injected subcutaneously on Day 0. Animals were divided into five groups of 15 mice each which underwent the following treatment regime Group 1 daily oral administration of vehicle Group 2 daily oral administration of 50 mg kg of Reference Compound Crizotinib Group 3 daily oral administration of 0.1 mg kg of Test Compound VAL401 and Group 4 daily administration of 0.5 mg kg Test Compound VAL401 Group 5 daily oral administration of 2 mg kg of Test Compound VAL401. Administration of Test and Reference Compounds began on Day 22 and continued until Day 64. Body weights of the animals were measured daily throughout the in life phase and primary tumor size measured with calipers in two dimensions three times a week with volumes calculated using the formula 0.5 L W W . The animals were sacrificed at Day 65. At the termination tumors were weighed measured in three dimensions.

No significant differences were observed in bodyweight during the experiment. No adverse events were recorded and no mice were terminated early. Data was assessed such that the treatment groups were pooled and treated mice were observed to be split into responder and non responder categories. 40 of treated mice responded and the tumour growth for the groups is seen below in Table 10. The tumour growth of the treatment non responders is seen to be comparable to the untreated animals validating the non response criteria Table 10 . Responders are seen to have significantly lower tumour growth than untreated animals Table 10 .

A 58 year old man complains of difficulty in urinating. After routine history and physical examination a physician diagnosis the man with prostate cancer. The man is treated systemically by intravenous administration a pharmaceutical composition comprising Risperidone and Rumenic acid as disclosed herein. The patient s condition is monitored and after about one month after treatment the physician determines that the size of the prostate has become smaller. At three and six month check ups the physician determines that there is a further decrease in the size of the tumor and that serum PSA levels are within the normal range. This reduction in tumor size and or reduces serum PSA levels indicates successful treatment with the composition disclosed herein. In a similar manner a pharmaceutical composition any of the other benzo iso oxazolepiperidines disclosed herein and or any of the other fatty acids disclosed herein such as e.g. an omega 3 fatty acid an omega 6 fatty acid an omega 7 fatty acid an omega 9 fatty acid or any combination thereof may be formulated into a pharmaceutical composition and administered to the patient as described above. Additionally administration of other therapeutic compounds disclosed herein such as e.g. a 5 reductase inhibitor a chemotherapeutic agent an anti proliferative agent or any combination thereof may be used in the treatment of this cancer.

A 67 year old man previously treated for prostate cancer with a hormone depletion therapy complains of a return of symptoms such as difficulty in urination. After routine history and physical examination a physician determines that the cancer in the prostate has increase in mass and has metastasized into the bones. The physician diagnosis the man with a hormone refractory prostate cancer. The man is treated systemically by intravenous administration a pharmaceutical composition comprising Risperidone and Rumenic acid as disclosed herein. The patient s condition is monitored and after about one month after treatment the physician determines that the size of the prostate has not increased in size. At three and six month check ups the physician determines that there is a decrease in the size of the tumor and that serum PSA levels are within the normal range. This reduction in tumor size and or reduces serum PSA levels indicates successful treatment with the composition disclosed herein. In a similar manner a pharmaceutical composition any of the other benzo iso oxazolepiperidines disclosed herein and or any of the other fatty acids disclosed herein such as e.g. an omega 3 fatty acid an omega 6 fatty acid an omega 7 fatty acid an omega 9 fatty acid or any combination thereof may be formulated into a pharmaceutical composition and administered to the patient as described above. Additionally administration of other therapeutic compounds disclosed herein such as e.g. a 5 reductase inhibitor a chemotherapeutic agent an anti proliferative agent or any combination thereof may be used in the treatment of this cancer.

A 61 year old woman complains of a solid mass in her left breast. After routine history and physical examination a physician diagnosis the woman with breast cancer. The woman is treated systemically by oral administration a pharmaceutical composition comprising Risperidone and Rumenic acid as disclosed herein. The patient s condition is monitored and after about one month after treatment the physician notes that the growth of the mass has slowed down. At three and six month check ups the physician determines that there is a decrease in the size of the tumor. The reduction in tumor size indicates successful treatment with the composition disclosed herein. In a similar manner a pharmaceutical composition any of the other benzo iso oxazolepiperidines disclosed herein and or any of the other fatty acids disclosed herein such as e.g. an omega 3 fatty acid an omega 6 fatty acid an omega 7 fatty acid an omega 9 fatty acid or any combination thereof may be formulated into a pharmaceutical composition and administered to the patient as described above. Additionally administration of other therapeutic compounds disclosed herein such as e.g. a 5 reductase inhibitor a chemotherapeutic agent an anti proliferative agent or any combination thereof may be used in the treatment of this cancer.

A 53 year old woman complains of pelvic pain. After routine history and physical examination a physician diagnosis the woman with ovarian cancer. The woman is treated systemically by oral administration a pharmaceutical composition comprising Risperidone and Rumenic acid as disclosed herein. The patient s condition is monitored and after about one month after treatment the physician notes that the growth of the malignant tumor has slowed down. At three and six month check ups the woman indicates that the pelvic pain is much reduced and the physician determines that there is a decrease in the size of the tumor. The reduction in pain and or tumor size indicates successful treatment with the composition disclosed herein. In a similar manner a pharmaceutical composition any of the other benzo iso oxazolepiperidines disclosed herein and or any of the other fatty acids disclosed herein such as e.g. an omega 3 fatty acid an omega 6 fatty acid an omega 7 fatty acid an omega 9 fatty acid or any combination thereof may be formulated into a pharmaceutical composition and administered to the patient as described above. Additionally administration of other therapeutic compounds disclosed herein such as e.g. a 5 reductase inhibitor a chemotherapeutic agent an anti proliferative agent or any combination thereof may be used in the treatment of this cancer.

A 69 year old man complains of chest pain and that it is difficult to breath and wheezing. After routine history and physical examination a physician diagnosis the man with lung cancer. The man is treated systemically by intravenous administration a pharmaceutical composition comprising Risperidone and Rumenic acid as disclosed herein. The patient s condition is monitored and after about one month after treatment the physician notes that the growth of the malignant tumor has slowed down. At three and six month check ups the man indicates that the chest pain is reduced normal breathing has returned and the physician determines that there is a decrease in the size of the tumor. The reduction in pain and or tumor size indicates successful treatment with the composition disclosed herein. In a similar manner a pharmaceutical composition any of the other benzo iso oxazolepiperidines disclosed herein and or any of the other fatty acids disclosed herein such as e.g. an omega 3 fatty acid an omega 6 fatty acid an omega 7 fatty acid an omega 9 fatty acid or any combination thereof may be formulated into a pharmaceutical composition and administered to the patient as described above. Additionally administration of other therapeutic compounds disclosed herein such as e.g. a 5 reductase inhibitor a chemotherapeutic agent an anti proliferative agent or any combination thereof may be used in the treatment of this cancer.

A 61 year old man complains of abdominal pain. After routine history and physical examination a physician diagnosis the man with pancreatic cancer. The man is treated systemically by oral administration a pharmaceutical composition comprising Risperidone and Rumenic acid as disclosed herein. The patient s condition is monitored and after about one month after treatment the physician notes that the growth of the malignant tumor has slowed down. At three and six month check ups the man indicates that the abdominal pain is much reduced and the physician determines that there is a decrease in the size of the tumor. The reduction in pain and or tumor size indicates successful treatment with the composition disclosed herein. In a similar manner a pharmaceutical composition any of the other benzo iso oxazolepiperidines disclosed herein and or any of the other fatty acids disclosed herein such as e.g. an omega 3 fatty acid an omega 6 fatty acid an omega 7 fatty acid an omega 9 fatty acid or any combination thereof may be formulated into a pharmaceutical composition and administered to the patient as described above. Additionally administration of other therapeutic compounds disclosed herein such as e.g. a 5 reductase inhibitor a chemotherapeutic agent an anti proliferative agent or any combination thereof may be used in the treatment of this cancer.

A 20 year old man begins losing hair on his scalp. After routine history and physical examination a physician diagnosis the man with androgenic alopecia. The man is treated locally by topical administration a pharmaceutical composition comprising Risperidone and Rumenic acid as disclosed herein. The patient s condition is monitored and after about one month after treatment the physician notes that further loss of hair has slowed. At three and six month check ups the man indicates that he has noticed regrowth in the areas where hair loss occurred on his scalp and physician determines that there is a further decrease in hair loss. This reduction in hair loss and or new hair growth indicates successful treatment with the composition disclosed herein. In a similar manner a pharmaceutical composition any of the other benzo iso oxazolepiperidines disclosed herein and or any of the other fatty acids disclosed herein such as e.g. an omega 3 fatty acid an omega 6 fatty acid an omega 7 fatty acid an omega 9 fatty acid or any combination thereof may be formulated into a pharmaceutical composition and administered to the patient as described above. Additionally administration of other therapeutic compounds disclosed herein such as e.g. a 5 reductase inhibitor may be used in the treatment of this hair loss.

In closing it is to be understood that although aspects of the present specification are highlighted by referring to specific embodiments one skilled in the art will readily appreciate that these disclosed embodiments are only illustrative of the principles of the subject matter disclosed herein. Therefore it should be understood that the disclosed subject matter is in no way limited to a particular methodology protocol and or reagent etc. described herein. As such various modifications or changes to or alternative configurations of the disclosed subject matter can be made in accordance with the teachings herein without departing from the spirit of the present specification. Lastly the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope of the present invention which is defined solely by the claims. Accordingly the present invention is not limited to that precisely as shown and described.

Certain embodiments of the present invention are described herein including the best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the invention. Of course variations on these described embodiments will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventor expects skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate and the inventors intend for the present invention to be practiced otherwise than specifically described herein. Accordingly this invention includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described embodiments in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the invention unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

Groupings of alternative embodiments elements or steps of the present invention are not to be construed as limitations. Each group member may be referred to and claimed individually or in any combination with other group members disclosed herein. It is anticipated that one or more members of a group may be included in or deleted from a group for reasons of convenience and or patentability. When any such inclusion or deletion occurs the specification is deemed to contain the group as modified thus fulfilling the written description of all Markush groups used in the appended claims.

Unless otherwise indicated all numbers expressing a characteristic item quantity parameter property term and so forth used in the present specification and claims are to be understood as being modified in all instances by the term about. As used herein the term about means that the characteristic item quantity parameter property or term so qualified encompasses a range of plus or minus ten percent above and below the value of the stated characteristic item quantity parameter property or term. Accordingly unless indicated to the contrary the numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations that may vary. For instance as mass spectrometry instruments can vary slightly in determining the mass of a given analyte the term about in the context of the mass of an ion or the mass charge ratio of an ion refers to 0.50 atomic mass unit.

At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical indication should at least be construed in light of the number of reported significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding techniques.

Use of the terms may or can in reference to an embodiment or aspect of an embodiment also carries with it the alternative meaning of may not or cannot. As such if the present specification discloses that an embodiment or an aspect of an embodiment may be or can be included as part of the inventive subject matter then the negative limitation or exclusionary proviso is also explicitly meant meaning that an embodiment or an aspect of an embodiment may not be or cannot be included as part of the inventive subject matter. In a similar manner use of the term optionally in reference to an embodiment or aspect of an embodiment means that such embodiment or aspect of the embodiment may be included as part of the inventive subject matter or may not be included as part of the inventive subject matter. Whether such a negative limitation or exclusionary proviso applies will be based on whether the negative limitation or exclusionary proviso is recited in the claimed subject matter.

Notwithstanding that the numerical ranges and values setting forth the broad scope of the invention are approximations the numerical ranges and values set forth in the specific examples are reported as precisely as possible. Any numerical range or value however inherently contains certain errors necessarily resulting from the standard deviation found in their respective testing measurements. Recitation of numerical ranges of values herein is merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate numerical value falling within the range. Unless otherwise indicated herein each individual value of a numerical range is incorporated into the present specification as if it were individually recited herein.

The terms a an the and similar referents used in the context of describing the present invention especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate the present invention and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention otherwise claimed. No language in the present specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element essential to the practice of the invention.

Specific embodiments disclosed herein may be further limited in the claims using consisting of or consisting essentially of language. When used in the claims whether as filed or added per amendment the transition term consisting of excludes any element step or ingredient not specified in the claims. The transition term consisting essentially of limits the scope of a claim to the specified materials or steps and those that do not materially affect the basic and novel characteristic s . Embodiments of the present invention so claimed are inherently or expressly described and enabled herein.

All patents patent publications and other publications referenced and identified in the present specification are individually and expressly incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for the purpose of describing and disclosing for example the compositions and methodologies described in such publications that might be used in connection with the present invention. These publications are provided solely for their disclosure prior to the filing date of the present application. Nothing in this regard should be construed as an admission that the inventors are not entitled to antedate such disclosure by virtue of prior invention or for any other reason. All statements as to the date or representation as to the contents of these documents is based on the information available to the applicants and does not constitute any admission as to the correctness of the dates or contents of these documents.

