---

title: System and method to use a cloud-based platform supported by an API to authenticate remote users and to provide PKI- and PMI-based distributed locking of content and distributed unlocking of protected content
abstract: A security system for authenticating users and protecting content that provides an application program interface (API) with a Cloud Platform integration (Platform) to extend the security capabilities of Public Key Infrastructure and Privilege Management Infrastructure systems to authenticated external users and protected content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09578035&OS=09578035&RS=09578035
owner: T-Central, Inc.
number: 09578035
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160513
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 715 588 filed May 18 2015 which claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 994 885 filed May 17 2014 titled A System with PKI PMI Based Distributed Locking Unlocking and Automated Distribution of Protected Content and from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 133 371 filed Mar. 15 2015 titled A Cloud based Platform supported by API s and SDK s providing a System with PKI PMI Based Distributed Locking Unlocking and Automated Distribution of Protected Content and or Scoring of Users and or Scoring of End Entity Access Means all of which are incorporated herein by reference and for all purposes.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 715 588 is a continuation in part and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 from co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 218 897 tilted System And Method To Enable Pki And Pmi Based Distributed Locking Of Content And Distributed Unlocking Of Protected Content And Or Scoring Of Users And Or Scoring Of End Entity Access Means Added filed Mar. 18 2014 by Graham et al which claimed priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 792 927 filed Mar. 15 2013 entitled System And Method To Enable Pki And Pmi Based Distributed Locking Of Content And Distributed Unlocking Of Protected Content And Or Scoring Of Users And Or Scoring Of End Entity Access Means by Kravitz et al. which incorporated herein by reference and for all purposes and which is a continuation in part and claimed priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 from co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 481 553 tilted Methods And Apparatus For Preventing Crimeware Attacks filed May 25 2012 by Kravitz et al which claimed priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 650 866 filed May 23 2012 entitled Method And Apparatus For A Cybersecurity Ecosystem by Kravitz et al. which is incorporated herein by reference and for all purposes and which also claimed priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 490 952 filed May 27 2011 entitled Method And Apparatus For A Financial Document Clearinghouse And Secure Delivery Network Cybersecurity Ecosystem by Graham III et al. which is incorporated herein by reference and for all purposes and which is a continuation in part and claimed priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 096 764 entitled Methods And Apparatus For A Financial Document Clearinghouse And Secure Delivery Network filed Apr. 28 2011 by Graham III et al. which claimed priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e from each of the four following U.S. provisional applications i U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 330 226 filed Apr. 30 2010 entitled Clearinghouse Server For Financial Data Delivery And Financial Services by Graham III et al. ii U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 367 574 filed Jul. 26 2010 entitled Methods And Systems For A Clearinghouse Server For Delivery Of Sensitive Data iii U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 367 576 filed Jul. 26 2010 entitled Methods And Apparatus For A Financial Document Clearinghouse System by Graham III et al. and iv U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 416 629 filed Nov. 23 2010 entitled Methods And Apparatus For Secure Data Delivery And User Scoring In A Financial Document Clearinghouse by Graham III et al. each of which is incorporated by reference and for all purposes.

The present disclosure relates generally to providing one or more Application Programming Interfaces APIs integrating with a Platform Service either Cloud local server based or other to provide access and use of one or more of the Platform s features. An example of one such feature could be to enable the extension of security credentials for entities such as enterprise businesses government small business individuals systems integrators independent software vendors and others Entities in order to effectuate more secure communication between an Entity and one or more remote third parties for example from an enterprise Entity to a third party customer beyond that enterprise Entities network firewall .

Most Entities are faced with similar common security challenges. For many of such challenges positive security solutions can sometimes be achieved through the use of cryptography. Cryptographic security solutions typically require well tested solutions which can be challenging to execute and deliver reliably and securely even for professional experienced in the field. According to Bruce Schneier respected cryptographer computer security privacy specialist and writer . . . two cryptography truisms. The first is that cryptography is hard . . . . The second is that cryptographic implementation is hard . . . and We re great at mathematically secure cryptography and terrible at using those tools to engineer secure systems . For these reasons well designed well executed tested cryptographic tools that provide useful and flexible solutions that meet actual security needs can be difficult for those Entities to produce for themselves. Therefore a Platform and API with useful and tested cryptographic solutions could be of benefit to those Entities.

The Platform with its API s and Software Development Kit SDK may make it easier and simpler for software designers application developers Entities and others to add sophisticated cryptographic security solutions to their applications and or Entity software solutions. The Platform API and related technology may allow them to devote more time to meeting software requirements rather than dealing with the unique challenges of developing secure cryptographic systems thereby reducing overall development time.

Application programmers including application developers often provide Users with software applications that enable various services for the User. For example an application may be provided to a user to authenticate the identity of a remote third party with whom the user desires to establish an authenticated secure communication line as described later herein . In such a case the application programmer or platform service provider provisions an API with the authentication feature and exposes various inputs to permit the user to activate the feature to implement the feature. The application programmer may implement the service of authentication based on knowledge of application programming interfaces APIs that are offered by various technology service and or platform providers. Each platform or service provider tends to have proprietary or specific APIs used to invoke the services it offers. The application programmer utilizes the APIs provided by the provider with the appropriate parameters to invoke the desired feature e.g. authentication of a remote third party .

API Application Programming Interface may include a set of routines protocols and tools for building software applications that utilize those specific routines protocols and tools. Generally an API is considered to be a software component in terms of its defined operations inputs outputs and underlying types. The Platform API may define and provide access to and use of the unique functionalities of the Platform. A software developer may incorporate the API into his her software application. An API may make it easier to develop a software application by providing some of the building blocks required by an application developer which he she may then put together.

APIs may be created and offered using various methods such as SOAP SOAP stands for Simple Object Access Protocol and is XML based . Another is REST short for Representational State Transfer. REST uses standard HTTP methods . More description of common API technology can be found at http en.wikipedia.org wiki Application programming interface

A Platform is often hosted in the Cloud e.g. Cloud computing Platform as a Service . Cloud computing see http en.wikipedia.org wiki Cloud computing . At the foundation of cloud computing is the broader concept of converged infrastructure and shared services. Cloud computing or in simpler shorthand just the cloud also focuses on maximizing the effectiveness of the shared resources.

The Platform as disclosed herein may also be hosted on a server within an Entity business network or elsewhere other than in the Cloud.

The Platform may support application developers to build software by employing the SDK tools to better use the capabilities of the API in order to control access and utilize the features and functions of the Platform. Using any of these capabilities for this disclosure an Entity and or User could gain access to one or more of the security authentication cryptographic and other capabilities as disclosed herein and or priority claims hereof including U.S. Provisional Patent Applications No. 61 994 885 and 62 133 371.

The Platform and API solutions disclosed herein may provide a User Directed Authenticated Cryptography Enabling Security Focused Ecosystem the Security Ecosystem as described in Appendix A of Application No. 62 133 371 through which an Entity and or an Entity s Users i.e. customers clients prospects vendors associates employees and or others with whom an Entity may have a need to share sensitive information can use one or more of the components of the Security Ecosystem to address one or more security challenges encountered by an Entity and or User.

Some examples of capabilities that might be accessed through the Platform and API may include but are not limited to the following features Cross Certification the Platform may cross certify an Entity s authorized identities with those of another trusted Entity that also uses the Platform cross certification may result in identities on one Entity being recognized by another Entity in order to facilitate inter Entity secure point to point encrypted communication with trusted identities . Go Paperless with Users may eliminate some printing and postage costs of sending statements and or invoices and or other digital content and or alternatively the cumbersome practice of requiring Users to login and manually retrieve such digital content by implementing a process of encrypting such digital content thus allowing for such digital content to their authenticated recipients for decryption . Digital Transaction Signing which may support regulatory and or business needs by providing non repudiable authorization for some high value transactions e.g. money transfers account changes medical orders access authorization etc. . Digital Signatures may provide an Integrated Persistent Non Repudiable Digital Signature capability between an Entity and a User and or another Entity that could facilitate the efficiency and reliability of remote document execution . Audit Trails may provide an integrated Digital Non Repudiable verifiable Audit Trail capability confirming chain of custody access etc. of encrypted digital files which in turn may reduce fraud . 2 Factor Authentication may provide an integrated digital 2 factor authentication capability to greatly enhance the reliability of remote authentication and approvals as compared to common SMS messaging techniques . Tunable Security the platform and or API may include a series of configurable authorization controls limitations and monitoring capabilities together with tunable security tools and such features may be configured controlled by an Entity and or Users. 

Benefits of the possible solutions that could be offered through the Platform and API are numerous with some of them being described as one or more of the following a core security solution together with add on customizable features that can integrate and evolve with existing security solutions a capability to enable an Entity to invite Users or individuals to a secure communication line without exposing the Entity Infrastructure a function to allow an Entity system administrator to track monitor and or audit transmitted encrypted digital content a capability to create a separate database of associates and affiliates including the right to revoke any invitation or relationship a capability for an Entity to send encrypted digital content outside an Entity firewall with a result being that such digital content may be as secure or more secure than within that firewall a capability to integrate Platform and or API data records with Active Directory or a similar system as well with an Entity s PKI Public Key Infrastructure a reduction in Data Spawn i.e. a tendency of unencrypted sensitive digital content to be copied and transferred to another person Entity and or location and possibly copied and transferred repeatedly with a result being that the original sensitive digital content may become located in multiple places and or with multiple individuals or entities thus reducing its security through the capabilities of the Platform and API whereby digital content may be transferred to multiple places and or with multiple individuals or entities in an encrypted format and may be stored in an encrypted format thus reducing an uncontrolled and or un audited distribution of unencrypted sensitive digital content.

The actions of the Platform may be selectively changed controlled and utilized via the API through Entity written code thus providing application specific security software required by an Entity or end User such functions may be unique custom common or generic . The functionality of the Platform may include the cryptographic security functionality desired by the Entity to provide it with one or more needed products functions solutions capabilities etc. For example these may include the inviter invitee protocol authentication functions audit trail capabilities or other products functions solutions capabilities etc. as described in this disclosure and or its priority claims etc.

A Platform SDK Software Development Kit may include a set of software development tools that may allow a software developer to create custom software applications to utilize the capabilities of the Platform and or API. A Platform and or API in general may also be used or accessed by other Platforms. An example of this is the Uber platform www.uber.com which uses the Twilio API and platform www.twilio.com for the telecommunications needs that Uber provides to its users e.g. a text that your Uber driver has arrived . Another example is that Uber also uses the Braintree API and platform www.braintreepayments.com for processing Uber customers credit card payments.

One problem to address could be long stalled going paperless initiatives of some Entities securely delivering statements invoices and other digital content to their Users as opposed to postal mail or the inconvenient come and get it paradigm requiring Users to log into Entity websites and manually retrieve such digital assets. Billions of documents need to be delivered annually from Entities to their Users. Mail is expensive. The come and get it paradigm of Users logging onto Entity websites is only partially successful. The going paperless problem is a manifestation of a broader problem confronting Entities lack of a user friendly workable authenticated secure B2C and B2B communication capability. It is a challenge today for Entities to easily and securely exchange sensitive digital content with those outside their networks. The Platform and API Security Ecosystem s integrated software capabilities can ensure that the sensitive digital content etc. that Entity users send to third parties who are off the Entity network can be delivered securely and privately to their correct authenticated recipients.

The Platform and API Security Ecosystem s software is generally oriented to reduce impact on the existing manner in which Entity users create store and transmit digital content to others. The Platform and API Security Ecosystem generally does not transport store or have access to user s encrypted data. The Platform and API Security Ecosystem generally attempts to provide security to user s digital assets by providing a system to protect those assets though encryption both in transit and at rest.

For Users the Platform and API Security Ecosystem may provide a tool so that Users may communicate privately securely and with confidence not only with their authenticated friends family and associates but also with their user created groups e.g. schools teams clubs political organizations etc. 

The Platform and API Security Ecosystem either directly or through Entities may offer Users a downloadable application to install on a desktop or mobile device that will lock encrypt and unlock decrypt digital content using a cryptographic standard such as Advanced Encryption Standards AES 256 as well as possibly other optional protocols. An authenticated authorized recipient of a digital file may open it locked files should not be viewable by advertisers email or cloud providers governments or others private encryption keys can be held generally by their owners and identities may be authenticated through user managed tools.

As stated on Page 1 of Appendix B of Application No. 62 133 371 as well as on Page 1 of Application No. 61 792 927 The various inventions described herein contemplate functions or services fulfilled through service provider involvement. As stated in the various referenced APPENDICES functions or services and or data and or keys may be split across multiple service providers or servers or systems and or across multiple components of a given service provider or server or system. Server may also be considered to be a computing device with a processor s and memory.

Such splitting of functions or services and or data and or keys Items across multiple service providers or servers or systems and or across multiple components of a given service provider or server or system applies to the nature of flexibility of configurations relative to how those Items could be located on a Platform and or a Line Server within the network infrastructure of an Entity and or elsewhere. Such embodiments of the invention are suggested and or described in the descriptions following the above quoted sections in the above priority filings.

Referring to an integration framework is provided to support application developers that develop applications and services for Entities and or Users in order to use the functions and services offered by the Platform and API. This framework may accommodate development in multiple languages etc. together with seamless integration by supporting those languages. The framework may support common open protocols e.g. REST SOAP . The framework may provide integrated class libraries for each of the programming languages supported. In one embodiment Common Language Specification CLS allows designers of various languages to write code that is able to access underlying library functionality of the Platform Object Services layer . The specification functions as a contract between language designers and library designers that can be used to promote language interoperability. By adhering to the CLS libraries written in one language can be directly accessible to code modules written in other languages to achieve seamless integration between code modules written in one language and code modules written in another language. More information on Common Language Specification can be found under Common Language Infrastructure on Wikipedia http en.wkipedia.org wiki Common Language Infrastructure . The framework includes an application program interface API layer . The API layer presents groups of functions that the applications can call to access the resources and services provided by Platform Object Services layer . By exposing the API functions for multiple Platform services application developers can create Web applications and or direct application calls that can generate control and or make full use of the Platform resources without needing to understand the complex interworkings of how those cryptographically sophisticated Platform resources actually operate or are made available. Moreover the Web applications can be written in any number of programming languages and may be translated into an intermediate language supported by a common language runtime and included as part of the Common Language Specification . In this way the API layer may provide methods to access all of the Platform resources. Additionally the framework can be configured to support API and or direct calls placed by remote Client Apps of the service see in . This framework may modified for Entity and or User purposes particularly if a User is using a limited or dedicated function device such as a mobile device tablet cellular phone etc. .

Referring to a Enterprise Entity has a network infrastructure including servers workstations firewall Active Directory Public Key Infrastructure PKI etc. In this embodiment it has a component of the invention with a separate Registration Authority Certification Authority Attribute Authority Line Servers combination which in another embodiment may not be present in the enterprise network environment . Both this and the Entity s API Control Interface Module interface with the API . On the workstation of an Employee of the Entity there is a sensitive plain test document digital content that the employee would like to send to an Outside User . Using an installed Client App which includes a Local Key Store Module LKSM the employee now an Inviter enters a request into the Client App to invite the Outside User now an Invitee to share a secure communication line between the two of them. The request travels across the network to the Entity s API control and interface module . In conformance with the specifications of the API the API control and interface module transmits an invitation request message to the API. The API transmits a translated message to the Platform . The functions and services of the Platform prepare an invitation response message that is returned to the API . In accordance with a specification the API converts the response to a message understandable by the API control and interface module . The API control and interface module transmits the message across the network to the Client App on the Inviter workstation . The Client App prepares a message that the Inviter can send in an email which arrives at the Invitee . The Invitee may click on a link in the email or visits a designated website and enter a unique invitation code which is provided in the email to download the client app. The client app is downloaded and installed . With the basic install completed the client is registered with the Platform. From the Platform the Invitee is asked a secret question supplied by the Inviter in the original invitation request to which the Invitee is expected to know the answer and upon supplying that answer the installation of the LKSM is authenticated with the Platform and the system. The Client App requests permission to make certain cryptographic keys including a Digital Identity Token DIT . This is done upon approval from the Platform with the Invitee s public keys then being sent to the Platform. The Inviter s public key is received from the Platform which had received it upon the initial installation of the Inviter s Client App . The functions and services of the Platform process and store this data and prepare a message that is returned to the API . In accordance with a specification the API converts this message to a message understandable by the API control and interface module and the Client App . The API control and interface module transmits the message across the network to the Client App on the Inviter workstation . The Client App updates its LKSM with the invitation authentication and stores the Invitee s public key.

