---

title: Voice over internet protocol credentials
abstract: A computer-implemented method to provide voice-over-internet protocol (VoIP) credentials to a device may include receiving, at a system, first credentials from a device. The method may also include authenticating the device using the first credentials and after authenticating the device, obtaining, at the system, a device identifier for the device based on the first credentials. The method may further include establishing a connection between the system and a VoIP system configured to provide VoIP services and after establishing the connection, providing, from the system, the device identifier to the VoIP system. The method may also include receiving, at the system, VoIP credentials for the device. In some embodiments, the VoIP credentials may be configured to authenticate the device with the VoIP system such that the device is able to receive the VoIP services from the VoIP system. The method may further include providing the VoIP credentials to the device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09614973&OS=09614973&RS=09614973
owner: Sorenson IP Holdings, LLC
number: 09614973
owner_city: Salt Lake City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160616
---
The embodiments discussed herein are related to obtaining Voice Over Internet Protocol VoIP credentials.

Traditional circuit switched voice service is being gradually replaced by packet based IP network technology such as Voice Over Internet Protocol VoIP . Common uses of VoIP may include fixed residential services provided via a cable modem or mobile device services. Today the installation and or provisioning of VoIP devices may be costly complex and or multi phased. For example in some instances a technician may be required to perform onsite installation. Additionally manually relaying of information such as relaying customer information to a VoIP system and relaying customer credentials to customers may occur.

The subject matter claimed herein is not limited to embodiments that solve any disadvantages or that operate only in environments such as those described above. Rather this background is only provided to illustrate one example technology area where some embodiments described herein may be practiced.

A computer implemented method to provide Voice Over Internet Protocol VoIP credentials to a device may include receiving at a system first credentials from a device. The method may also include authenticating the device using the first credentials and after authenticating the device obtaining at the system a device identifier for the device based on the first credentials. The method may further include establishing a connection between the system and a VoIP system configured to provide VoIP services and after establishing the connection providing from the system the device identifier to the VoIP system. The method may also include receiving at the system VoIP credentials for the device. In some embodiments the VoIP credentials may be configured to authenticate the device with the VoIP system such that the device is able to receive the VoIP services from the VoIP system. The method may further include providing the VoIP credentials to the device.

Some embodiments in this disclosure relate to a system that may be configured to obtain Voice Over Internet Protocol VoIP credentials for a device from a VoIP system. In these and other embodiments the system may create a VoIP account for the device with the VoIP system obtain the VoIP credentials from the VoIP system and provide the VoIP credentials to the device. The device may use the VoIP credentials to access VoIP services from the VoIP system.

For example in some embodiments a device may register with a system that is not the VoIP system. After registration the device may log in to the system to obtain the VoIP credentials. In these and other embodiments the system may authenticate the device. After device authentication the system may register the device with the VoIP system using information from the log in or the device registration. For example the system may establish a secure connection with the VoIP system and provide information about the device to the VoIP system. The information may include an address associated with the device a device identifier among other information.

The VoIP system may assign a phone number to the device based on a physical address associated with a user of the device and may generate VoIP credentials for the device. The VoIP system may provide the phone number and the VoIP credentials to the system. The system may relay the phone number and the VoIP credentials to the device. The device may provide the VoIP credentials to the VoIP system to obtain the VoIP system s VoIP services without further communication with the system.

The system and method described in this disclosure may provide various benefits. For example the system and methods may increase a speed of obtaining VoIP credentials as well as maintaining the security of the VoIP credentials. The system and methods may decrease errors associated with a device receiving VoIP services. Furthermore the disclosure may also provide meaningful limitations in one or more particular technical environments that go beyond an abstract idea. For example embodiments of the disclosure may provide improvements in the technical field of telecommunications particularly in a telecommunication system including VoIP communication services. Embodiments include features that may improve the functionality of devices and systems such that a new device system and method for obtaining VoIP credentials is described.

Turning to the figures illustrates an example system configured to obtain Voice Over Internet Protocol VoIP credentials for a device. The system may be arranged in accordance with at least one embodiment described in the present disclosure. The system may include a network a device an administrative system that includes a database and a VoIP system .

The network may be configured to communicatively couple the administrative system with the device and the VoIP system and to communicatively couple the device with the VoIP system .

In some embodiments the network may be any network or configuration of networks configured to send and receive communications between devices. In some embodiments the network may include a conventional type network a wired or wireless network and may have numerous different configurations. Furthermore the network may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet or other interconnected data paths across which multiple devices and or entities may communicate. In some embodiments the network may include a peer to peer network. The network may also be coupled to or may include portions of a telecommunications network for sending data in a variety of different communication protocols. In some embodiments the network may include Bluetooth communication networks or cellular communication networks for sending and receiving communications and or data including via short message service SMS multimedia messaging service MMS hypertext transfer protocol HTTP direct data connection wireless application protocol WAP e mail etc. The network may also include a mobile data network that may include third generation 3G fourth generation 4G long term evolution LTE long term evolution advanced LTE A Voice over LTE VoLTE or any other mobile data network or combination of mobile data networks. Further the network may include one or more IEEE 802.11 wireless networks.

The device may be any electronic or digital device. For example the device may include a desktop computer a laptop computer a smartphone a mobile phone a tablet computer a phone console or any other processing device. In some embodiments the device may be configured to establish communication sessions with other devices. For example the device may be configured to establish a VoIP phone call with another device. Alternately or additionally the device may be configured to communicate with other systems such as the administrative system and the VoIP system over a network such as the network . In these and other embodiments the device may receive data from and send data to both the administrative system and the VoIP system .

In some embodiments the administrative system may include any configuration of hardware such as processors servers and databases that are networked together and configured to perform a task. For example the administrative system may include multiple computing systems such as multiple servers that each include memory and at least one processor which are networked together and configured to perform operations as described in this disclosure among other operations. In some embodiments the administrative system may include computer readable instructions that are configured to be executed by the administrative system to perform operations described in this disclosure.

In some embodiments the VoIP system may include any configuration of hardware such as processors servers and databases that are networked together and configured to perform a task. For example the VoIP system may include multiple computing systems such as multiple servers that each include memory and at least one processor which are networked together and configured to perform operations as described in this disclosure among other operations. In some embodiments the VoIP system may include computer readable instructions that are configured to be executed by the VoIP system to perform operations described in this disclosure.

In some embodiments the administrative system may be configured to register the device with the VoIP system and obtain VoIP credentials for the device from the VoIP system . In these and other embodiments the administrative system may also pay for the VoIP services obtained by the device from the VoIP system . While the administrative system may register pay for and obtain the VoIP credentials on behalf of the device the administrative system may not be involved with administration of the VoIP services to the device by the VoIP system . For example after the device obtains the VoIP credentials from the administrative system the device may obtain VoIP services from the VoIP system without further involvement from the administrative system .

In some embodiments the VoIP system and the administrative system may be separate third party systems that are separated by firewalls networks etc. For example the VoIP system and the administrative system may be controlled and operated by different entities that are unaffiliated except through the transactions discussed in the present disclosure. In these and other embodiments the administrative system may be affiliated with the VoIP system to the extent that the administrative system may register and obtain VoIP credentials for the device and other devices that are registered with the administrative system . Thus the administrative system may not be controlled used by or otherwise affected by the VoIP system except when the administrative system requests registration and credentials from the VoIP system for devices registered with the administrative system .

In some embodiments the administrative system may also be configured to provide additional services to the device . For example the administrative system may be configured to provide captioning of VoIP communication sessions between the device and other devices. Further details regarding captioning services are provided with respect to .

To register the device the administrative system may receive registration information about the device and or a user of the device . In these and other embodiments the registration information may include a device identifier such as an electronic serial number or some other identifier unique to the device . The registration information may additionally include a physical address associated with the user of the device information about the user of the device authentication credentials such as unique authentication identification and password among other information. Using the registration information the administrative system may register the device and generate a system identifier for the device . The administrative system may store the registration information and the system identifier for the device in the database .

In some embodiments the administrative system may host a website through which the administrative system may obtain the registration information from a device . Alternately or additionally the device may include an application associated with the administrative system through which the administrative system may obtain the registration information.

After registration of the device the device may send the authentication credentials to the administrative system . In some embodiments the administrative system may request the authentication credentials from the device or the device may send the authentication credentials without a request from the administrative system .

Using the authentication credentials the administrative system may authenticate the device . The administrative system may also be configured to obtain the system identifier of the device based on the authentication credentials. In these and other embodiments the administrative system may obtain the system identifier by retrieving the system identifier from the database using the log in credentials.

The administrative system may also make a determination regarding whether the device is registered with the VoIP system . When the device is not registered with the VoIP system the administrative system may be configured to register the device with the VoIP system .

To register the device with the VoIP system the administrative system may provide information regarding the device to the VoIP system . In some embodiments the administrative system may provide the device identifier and or the system identifier to the VoIP system to register the device .

The VoIP system may be configured to register the device based on the device identifier and or the system identifier received from the administrative system . Using the device identifier and or the system identifier the VoIP system may assign a phone number and a VoIP identifier to the device . The VoIP system may also be configured to generate VoIP credentials for the device . The VoIP credentials may be used by the device to obtain VoIP services from the VoIP system .

In some embodiments the administrative system may be further configured to provide additional registration information to the VoIP system . For example the administrative system may provide a physical address associated with the device to the VoIP system . In these and other embodiments the physical address may be associated with a home or emergency address location for the device . The emergency address location may be location associated with the device that may be accessible by first responders such as police fire or other governmental agencies when an emergency call is made from the device . In some embodiments the administrative system may obtain confirmation regarding the accuracy of the emergency address location before sending the emergency address location to the VoIP system . In these and other embodiments the administrative system may send the emergency address location to the device . The device may present the emergency address location to a user and obtain input from the user regarding the accuracy of the emergency address location. The device may provide the user response as a confirmation to the administrative system . In some embodiments the emergency address location may be changed by the device and submitted to the administrative system for submission to the VoIP system .

The VoIP system may receive the additional information from the administrative system . In some embodiments the VoIP system may use the additional information to select the phone number to assign to the device . In these and other embodiments the VoIP system may use the additional information to select a phone number that is associated with the region that includes the physical address associated with the device from the additional information. For example the VoIP system may select an area code and or other digits such as the first three digits of the non area code portion of the phone number based on the physical address associated with the device . The VoIP system may be further configured to associate the phone number assigned to the device with the emergency address location for use by first responders.

After assignment of the phone number and the generation of the VoIP credentials the VoIP system may provide the phone number and the VoIP credentials to the administrative system . The administrative system may relay the phone number and the VoIP credentials to the device . The administrative system may not store the VoIP credentials after relaying the phone number and the VoIP credentials to the device . For example the administrative system may temporarily store the VoIP credentials to allow the administrative system to connect and forward the VoIP credentials to the device . However after providing the VoIP credentials to the device the VoIP credentials may not be stored in the administrative system . In this manner the administrative system may be a pass through system for the VoIP credentials.

The device may receive the phone number and the VoIP credentials from the administrative system . In some embodiments the administrative system may also provide a network address of the VoIP system . In these and other embodiments the device may provide the VoIP credentials to the VoIP system to the network address of the VoIP system independent of the administrative system .

The VoIP system may receive the VoIP credentials and may authenticate the device . After authentication the VoIP system may authorize communication sessions using VoIP services from the VoIP system . As a result the device may receive and make phone calls and or establish other communication sessions with other devices using the phone number provided by the VoIP system and the VoIP services from the VoIP system . In these and other embodiments the administrative system may not be involved in establishing and or maintaining the communication sessions using the VoIP services from the VoIP system . The administrative system may provide ancillary services such as transcription services of the communication sessions but such services may not affect the VoIP services and or the VoIP system may not change how the VoIP services are provided to the device as compared to devices that do not use the administrative system to register with the VoIP system .

In some embodiments the VoIP credentials may expire. In these and other embodiments the device may request renewed VoIP credentials from the administrative system . To request the renewed VoIP credentials the device may provide the authentication credentials to the administrative system . The administrative system may authenticate the device . After authenticating the device the administrative system may provide information about the device such as the device identifier and or the system identifier to the VoIP system . The VoIP system may provide the renewed VoIP credentials to the administrative system . The administrative system may relay the renewed VoIP credentials to the device . The device may send the renewed VoIP credentials to the VoIP system to continue to use the VoIP services provided by the VoIP system .

Modifications additions or omissions may be made to the system without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. For example in some embodiments the system may include additional devices similar to the device . In these and other embodiments the administrative system may obtain VoIP credentials for the other devices in a similar manner as the device . In some embodiments the network used to establish communication between the device and the administrative system may be different from the network used for communication between the device and the VoIP system and the network used for communication between the administrative system and the VoIP system . The network provides an illustration of an example network that may be used.

The operations may include an exchange of registration information between the device and the administrative system . In these and other embodiments an application may be running on the device that may perform operations by the device and or direct the communications between the device and the administrative system and between the device and the VoIP system . In these and other embodiments the application may be a specific application running on the device that may be provided by the administrative system .

In these and other embodiments the registration information may include a device identifier authentication credentials an address associated with the device and other information about the device . Using the registration information the administrative system may register the device . Registration of the device may include the administrative system generating a system identifier for the device . In some embodiments the administrative system may associate the registration information with the system identifier and may store the registration information and the system identifier. The registration information being associated with the system identifier may indicate that the registration information and the system identifier are stored in a database such that one or both of the registration information and the system identifier point to each other in the database. The stored registration information may be used to authenticate the device in the future and to obtain a system identifier for the device when the device is authenticated. Using the system identifier other information about the device may be accessed or other operations performed by the administrative system for the device .

The device may provide a log in request to the administrative system . The log in request may include the authentication credentials. Using the authentication credentials the administrative system may authenticate or log in the device . The administrative system may authenticate the device using any manner of authentication algorithms or schemes. Using the information from authentication the administrative system may obtain the system identifier. The administrative system may obtain the system identifier by retrieving the system identifier from a database.

The administrative system may establish a connection with the VoIP system . To establish the connection the administrative system may offer one or more tokens or other authenticating credentials to the VoIP system . In some embodiments the connection may be through an application programming interface API established for communication between the administrative system and the VoIP system .

After establishing a connection the administrative system may issue a new account request for the device . When requesting the new account the administrative system may provide some or all of the registration information to the VoIP system . For example the administrative system may provide the device identifier and or the system identifier to the VoIP system .

The VoIP system may be configured to select and assign a phone number to the device based on the new account request . Furthermore the VoIP system may assign a VoIP identifier to the device that may be associated with the device identifier and or the system identifier assigned by the administrative system . The VoIP system may indicate to the administrative system that the new account has been successfully generated.

After account creation the administrative system may issue a VoIP credentials request for the device . In some embodiments the VoIP credentials request may include the system identifier for the device . Alternately or additionally the VoIP credentials request may not include an identifier for a specific device but may be a general request for information regarding devices registered with the VoIP system through the administrative system . In some embodiments the VoIP credentials request may be sent to an API endpoint of the VoIP system .

In response to the VoIP credentials request the VoIP system may provide the administrative system with VoIP identifiers associated with the administrative system . In these and other embodiments the VoIP identifiers associated with the administrative system may include VoIP identifiers generated for devices that are registered with the VoIP system by the administrative system . The VoIP identifiers may be provided with their corresponding device identifiers. For example each VoIP identifier may be correlated to a specific device identifier.

The administrative system may be configured to select a VoIP identifier that is associated with the device . To select the VoIP identifier associated with the device the administrative system may obtain the device identifier of the device . In some embodiments the device identifier may have been obtained with the registration information and may be stored by the administrative system . Alternately or additionally the device identifier may be provided by the device during the log in request or during the authentication process . Alternately or additionally the administrative system may request the device identifier from the device after authenticating the device . The administrative system may search the device identifiers correlated with the VoIP identifiers that are received from the VoIP system for the device identifier of the device . In some embodiments the device identifiers correlated with the VoIP identifier that are received from the VoIP system may be referred to as correlated device identifiers By searching the correlated device identifiers the administrative system may select the correlated device identifier that matches or is otherwise determined to be equivalent to the device identifier of the device . The VoIP identifier that is correlated with the selected correlated device identifier may be selected by the administrative system . The selected VoIP identifier may be the VoIP identifier assigned by the VoIP system to the device during the generation of the account for the device .

The administrative system may again send a request for VoIP credentials to the VoIP system along with the selected VoIP identifier. The VoIP system may use the selected VoIP identifier to generate VoIP credentials for the device . The VoIP system may provide the VoIP credentials to the administrative system . In some embodiments the VoIP credentials request may be sent to an API endpoint of the VoIP system .

The administrative system may provide the VoIP credentials to the device . After providing the VoIP credentials to the device the administrative system may remove the VoIP credentials on the administrative system . In these and other embodiments removing the VoIP credentials may not involve any affirmative action by the administrative system . In these and other embodiments the VoIP credentials may be stored in short term memory after being received from the VoIP system while being provided to the device . In these and other embodiments the VoIP credentials may be removed by being overwritten during normal operations or by the administrative system disassociating the location of the VoIP credentials such that they are no longer stored.

In some embodiments the administrative system may encrypt the VoIP credentials before sending the VoIP credentials to the device . In some embodiments the application running on the device may receive the VoIP credentials from the administrative system . When the VoIP credentials are encrypted the application on the device may decrypt the VoIP credentials . In some embodiments the keys used to encrypt and decrypt the VoIP credentials may be shared between the device and the administrative system but not the VoIP system .

In response to receipt of the VoIP credentials the application on the device may issue an authorization request to the VoIP system . The authorization request may include the VoIP credentials received from the administrative system . The VoIP system may authorize the device based on the VoIP credentials and provide the device with VoIP services . In some embodiments the VoIP services may provide the device with the ability to establish communication sessions between the device and other devices using a VoIP connection. For example the device may be able to make and receive phone calls using a number assigned by the VoIP system .

Modifications additions or omissions may be made to the operations without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. For example in some embodiments the operations may include the VoIP system assigning a phone number to the device based on a geographic location associated with the device . Other operations may include providing the phone number to the administrative system and the administrative system relaying the phone number to the device . In some embodiments some of the operations may not be performed. For example in some embodiments the log in request may not occur as the device may be authenticated during the registration of the device .

Additionally or alternately one or more of the operations may occur when the VoIP credentials are no longer valid and are ready for renewal. In these and other embodiments the registration information and the registration operations may not occur.

The method may begin at block where a device may be registered with an administrative system. During registration authentication credentials and a device system identifier may be determined for the device. Furthermore the device may provide a device identifier to the administrative system.

In block a log in request from the device may be received at the administrative system. In some embodiments the log in request may include authentication credentials of the device.

In some embodiments the log in request may be made automatically by an application running on the device without a request from a user of the device. The application may be configured to assist in handling VoIP communications for the device. In these and other embodiments the application on the device may determine to request a log in if VoIP credentials stored by the application on the device are no longer valid or are soon to become invalid. Alternately or additionally the log in request may be made automatically by the application based on a periodic or random period of time a number of communication sessions that have occurred and or based on other data points that may be tracked by the application.

In block the administrative system may use the authentication credentials from the device to authenticate the device. In block it may be determined if the device is authenticated by the administrative system. When the device is not authenticated the method may proceed to block . When the device is authenticated the method may proceed to block .

In block when the device is not authenticated by the administrative system the log in of the device may be denied. In some embodiments the administrative system may indicate to the device why the authentication failed. In these and other embodiments the method may not proceed until another log in request is received from the device.

In block when the device is authenticated by the administrative system a device system identifier may be obtained. In some embodiments the device system identifier may be obtained from a database.

In block VoIP credentials for the device may be requested by the administrative system from a VoIP system. In some embodiments the VoIP credentials may be requested based on the device system identifier.

In block the administrative system may receive the VoIP credentials from the VoIP system. In block the administrative system may provide the VoIP credentials to the device. In some embodiments the administrative system may encrypt the VoIP credentials before sending the VoIP credentials to the device.

One skilled in the art will appreciate that for this and other processes operations and methods disclosed herein the functions and or operations performed may be implemented in differing order. Furthermore the outlined functions and operations are only provided as examples and some of the functions and operations may be optional combined into fewer functions and operations or expanded into additional functions and operations without detracting from the essence of the disclosed embodiments.

For example in some embodiments the method may not include block . In these and other embodiments the VoIP credentials may be generically requested for the administrative system or requested using a device identifier such as a device electronic serial number. Alternately or additionally the method may not include block . Alternately or additionally the method may include additional blocks. For example additional operations may be performed between block and . may illustrate some examples of operations that may be performed between blocks and .

The method may begin at block where first credentials and a first device identifier may be received at a system from a device. In some embodiments the first device identifier may be an electronic serial number of the device. In block the device may be authenticated using the first credentials.

In block after authenticating the device a second device identifier for the device that is based on the first credentials may be obtained at the system. In some embodiments the device identifier is obtained from a database that is part of the system. In these and other embodiments the device identifier may have been previously received and stored in the database. Alternately or additionally the device identifier may be obtained from the device.

In block a connection may be established between the system and a VoIP system configured to provide VoIP services. In some embodiments the connection may include the system connecting with an API of the VoIP system.

In block after establishing the connection the first device identifier and the second device identifier may be provided to the VoIP system.

In block VoIP credentials for the device may be received at the system. The VoIP credentials may be configured based on the first device identifier and configured to authenticate the device with the VoIP system such that the device is able to receive the VoIP services from the VoIP system without further communication with the system. In some embodiments the device is able to receive the VoIP services from the VoIP system without further communication with the system until the VoIP credentials expire. In these and other embodiments after expiration of the VoIP credentials one or more operations of the method may be repeated to obtain renewed VoIP credentials from the VoIP system.

In block the VoIP credentials may be provided to the device from the system. In some embodiments VoIP credentials may be encrypted by the system such that the VoIP credentials provided to the device are encrypted. In some embodiments the VoIP credentials may be passed through the system to the device. In these and other embodiments the VoIP credentials may not be maintained in the system after providing the VoIP credentials to the device.

One skilled in the art will appreciate that for this and other processes operations and methods disclosed herein the functions and or operations performed may be implemented in differing order. Furthermore the outlined functions and operations are only provided as examples and some of the functions and operations may be optional combined into fewer functions and operations or expanded into additional functions and operations without detracting from the essence of the disclosed embodiments.

For example in some embodiments the method may further include receiving multiple device identifiers that include the first device identifier. In these and other embodiments each of the multiple device identifiers may be associated with a different device that is configured to receive VoIP services. The method may further include receiving multiple VoIP identifiers. In these and other embodiments each of the multiple VoIP identifiers may correspond to a different one of the multiple device identifiers. In these and other embodiments the method may further include selecting one of the multiple VoIP identifiers. The one of the multiple VoIP identifiers may correspond to the first device identifier of the multiple device identifiers. In some embodiments the method may further include providing the one of the multiple VoIP identifiers to the VoIP system. In these and other embodiments the VoIP credentials for the device are received at the system in response to providing the one of the multiple VoIP identifiers.

In some embodiments the method may further include receiving at the system audio of a communication session between a second device and the device. In these and other embodiments the communication session may be implemented using the VoIP system. In some embodiments the method may further include generating text data based on the audio of the communication session and providing the text data to the device. The device may be configured to display the text data and present the audio simultaneously.

Generally the processor may include any suitable special purpose or general purpose computer computing entity or processing device including various computer hardware or software modules and may be configured to execute instructions stored on any applicable computer readable storage media. For example the processor may include a microprocessor a microcontroller a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA or any other digital or analog circuitry configured to interpret and or to execute program instructions and or to process data.

Although illustrated as a single processor in it is understood that the processor may include any number of processors distributed across any number of networks or physical locations that are configured to perform individually or collectively any number of operations described herein. In some embodiments the processor may interpret and or execute program instructions and or process data stored in the memory the database or the memory and the database . In some embodiments the processor may fetch program instructions from the database and load the program instructions into the memory .

After the program instructions are loaded into the memory the processor may execute the program instructions. For example the system may be part of the device of . In these and other embodiments the instructions may include the processor instructing the communication unit to transmit registration information to the administrative system or to transmit the VoIP credentials to the VoIP system .

As another example the system may be part of the administrative system of . In these and other embodiments the instructions may include the processor fetching authentication credentials from the database to authenticate the device among other operations that may be performed by the administrative system of .

The memory and the database may include computer readable storage media or one or more computer readable storage mediums for carrying or having computer executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such computer readable storage media may be any available media that may be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer such as the processor . By way of example and not limitation such computer readable storage media may include non transitory computer readable storage media including Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices flash memory devices e.g. solid state memory devices or any other storage medium which may be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures and which may be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. Combinations of the above may also be included within the scope of computer readable storage media. Computer executable instructions may include for example instructions and data configured to cause the processor to perform a certain operation or group of operations such as one or more of the operations one or more blocks of the method and or one or more blocks of the method .

The communication unit may include any component device system or combination thereof that is configured to transmit or receive information over a network. In some embodiments the communication unit may communicate with other devices at other locations the same location or even other components within the same system. For example the communication unit may include a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device a wireless communication device such as an antenna and or chipset such as a Bluetooth device an 802.6 device e.g. Metropolitan Area Network MAN a WiFi device a WiMax device cellular communication facilities etc. and or the like. The communication unit may permit data to be exchanged with a network and or any other devices or systems described in the present disclosure. For example if the system is included in the administrative system of the communication unit may allow the administrative system to communicate with the VoIP system over the network of .

The display may be configured as one or more displays like an LCD LED or other type display. The display may be configured to present video text captions user interfaces and other data as directed by the processor .

The user interface unit may include any device to allow a user to interface with the system . For example the user interface unit may include a mouse a track pad a keyboard and or a touchscreen among other devices. The user interface unit may receive input from a user and provide the input to the processor .

The peripheral devices may include one or more devices. For example the peripheral devices may include a microphone an imager and or a speaker among other peripheral devices. In these and other embodiments the microphone may be configured to capture audio. The imager may be configured to capture digital images. The digital images may be captured in a manner to produce video or image data. In some embodiments the speaker may broadcast audio received by the system or otherwise generated by the system .

Modifications additions or omissions may be made to the system without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. For example when the system is part of the administrative system of the system may not include one or more of the electronic display the peripheral devices or other aspects of the system .

As illustrated the first device and the administrative system may be analogous and include the functionality of the device and the administrative system respectively of . illustrates an example of the additional services that the administrative system may provide to the first device . The network may be analogous to the network and no further description is provided with respect to .

In some embodiments the communication system illustrated may be configured to facilitate an assisted call between a hearing impaired user and a second user . As used in the present disclosure a hearing impaired user may refer to a person with diminished hearing capabilities. Hearing impaired users often have some level of hearing ability that has usually diminished over a period of time such that the hearing impaired user can communicate by speaking but that the hearing impaired user often struggles in hearing and or understanding others.

In some embodiments a communication session may be established between the first device and the second device . In these and other embodiments the communication session may be established using VoIP services. The first device may obtain access to use the VoIP services using VoIP credentials obtained from the administrative system as explained in the present disclosure.

The captioning system may be an assistive service which is intended to permit a hearing impaired person to utilize a communication network and assist their understanding of a conversation by providing text captions to supplement voice conversation occurring during communication sessions with other devices such as the second device .

During a captioning communication session the captioning system and the first device maybe be communicatively coupled using networking protocols. In some embodiments during the communication session between the first device and the second device the first device may provide the audio signal from the second device to the captioning system .

At the captioning system a call assistant may listen to the audio signal of the second user and revoice the words of the second user to a speech recognition computer program tuned to the voice of the call assistant. In these and other embodiments the call assistant may be an operator who serves as a human intermediary between the hearing impaired user and the second user . In some embodiments text captions may be generated by the speech recognition computer as a transcription of the audio signal of the second user . The text captions may be provided to the first device being used by the hearing impaired user over the network . The first device may display the text captions while the hearing impaired user carries on a normal conversation with the second user . The text captions may allow the hearing impaired user to supplement the voice signal received from the second device and confirm his or her understanding of the words spoken by the second user .

Modifications additions or omissions may be made to the communication system without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. For example in some embodiments the second user may be hearing impaired. In these and other embodiments the captioning system may provide text captions to the second device based on audio data transmitted by the first device . Alternately or additionally the captioning system may include additional functionality. For example the captioning system may edit the text captions or make other alterations to the text captions after presentation of the text captions on the first device .

As indicated above the embodiments described herein may include the use of a special purpose or general purpose computer e.g. the processor of including various computer hardware or software modules as discussed in greater detail below. Further as indicated above embodiments described herein may be implemented using computer readable media e.g. the memory or database of for carrying or having computer executable instructions or data structures stored thereon.

In some embodiments the different components modules engines and services described herein may be implemented as objects or processes that execute on a computing system e.g. as separate threads . While some of the systems and methods described herein are generally described as being implemented in software stored on and or executed by general purpose hardware specific hardware implementations or a combination of software and specific hardware implementations are also possible and contemplated.

In accordance with common practice the various features illustrated in the drawings may not be drawn to scale. The illustrations presented in the present disclosure are not meant to be actual views of any particular apparatus e.g. device system etc. or method but are merely idealized representations that are employed to describe various embodiments of the disclosure. Accordingly the dimensions of the various features may be arbitrarily expanded or reduced for clarity. In addition some of the drawings may be simplified for clarity. Thus the drawings may not depict all of the components of a given apparatus e.g. device or all operations of a particular method.

Terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. .

Additionally if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to embodiments containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations.

In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. or one or more of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended to include A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together or A B and C together etc. For example the use of the term and or is intended to be construed in this manner.

Further any disjunctive word or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B should be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

Additionally the use of the terms first second third etc. are not necessarily used herein to connote a specific order. Generally the terms first second third etc. are used to distinguish between different elements as generic identifiers. Absence a showing that the terms first second third etc. connote a specific order these terms should not be understood to connote a specific order.

All examples and conditional language recited herein are intended for pedagogical objects to aid the reader in understanding the invention and the concepts contributed by the inventor to furthering the art and are to be construed as being without limitation to such specifically recited examples and conditions. Although embodiments of the present disclosure have been described in detail it should be understood that the various changes substitutions and alterations could be made hereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure.

