---

title: Support for asynchronous adaptation to uplink and downlink traffic demands for wireless communication
abstract: Technology is discussed to allow transmission points within a Wireless Wide Area Network (WWAN) to adapt to Up Link (UL) and Down Link (DL) traffic demands independently. To mitigate potential interference arising from transmission points scheduled for conflicting UL and DL transmissions, measurements between transmission points can be made to indicate a level of coupling. Based on the various levels of coupling between transmission points, clusters can be formed. Where a high level of coupling is present, transmission points can be included in a common cluster. Where a low level of coupling is present, they can be isolated. Transmission points within the same cluster are scheduled with a common pattern of UL and DL transmissions to avoid interference. Transmission points in different clusters can have different patterns of UL and DL transmission to independently adapt to the relative demands for UL and DL transmissions experienced within these different clusters.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09615378&OS=09615378&RS=09615378
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09615378
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160203
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 592 598 filed Aug. 23 2012 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 612 188 filed Mar. 16 2012 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Many Wireless Wide Area Networks WWAN employ some form of Time Division Duplexing TDD to schedule both Down Link DL and Up Link UL traffic. In a TDD environment DL and UL communications occur between a cellular radio tower tower and wireless mobile devices within a geographic area covered by the tower that is referred to as a cell. DL communications from the tower to the wireless mobile devices occur during a first set of timeslots. Conversely UL communications from the wireless mobile devices to the tower occur during a second non overlapping set of timeslots. The collection of timeslots for which a tower schedules radio resources for UL and DL communications describes the UL DL configuration or TDD configuration for the tower and its corresponding cell.

Unfortunately when differing or asynchronous UL DL TDD configurations are adopted at different transmission points within a WWAN interference can become a problem. The DL transmission of one tower can interfere with the UL reception at another tower. Similarly the UL transmissions of one wireless device can interfere with the DL reception at another wireless device. To avoid such interference entire WWANs can operate synchronously with a common UL DL TDD configuration.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

Different terminology for wireless devices is used in different specifications. As used herein a wireless device is a device configured to wirelessly communicate with a cellular radio tower. Examples of wireless devices include but are not limited to a User Equipment UE and a Mobile Station MS . Throughout this application the term UE can be used interchangeably with the term MS or another form of wireless device.

As used herein a transmission point is a wireless communication device in a Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN configured to communicate with a plurality of wireless devices located within a geographic region referred to as a cell. Different terminology for transmission points is used in different wireless specifications. Terminology used for different variations of a transmission point can include but is not limited to a Base Station BS and an evolved Node B eNodeB or eNB . The terms are used interchangeably unless otherwise noted. The actual definition of a BS or eNodeB is provided in the respective specifications namely Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 and Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE specifications.

As used herein the term substantially refers to the complete or nearly complete extent or degree of an action characteristic property state structure item or result. For example an object that is substantially enclosed would mean that the object is either completely enclosed or nearly completely enclosed. The exact allowable degree of deviation from absolute completeness may in some cases depend on the specific context. However generally speaking the nearness of completion will be so as to have the same overall result as if absolute and total completion were obtained. The use of substantially is equally applicable when used in a negative connotation to refer to the complete or near complete lack of an action characteristic property state structure item or result.

As used herein the term adjacent can mean abutting but can also mean sufficiently near that the interference between adjacent elements is a significant concern regardless of any intervening elements.

With respect to such clustering approaches an initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Within a Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN employing a form of Time Division Duplexing TDD many different possibilities exist for Up Link UL Down Link DL TDD configurations with differing relative numbers of timeslots resources for UL and for DL transmission. These different combinations of UL and DL dedicated timeslots can allow a transmission point to adapt to different demands for traffic in a given cell. For example where traffic within a cell creates a much greater demand for DL transmission more DL timeslots can be scheduled for DL transmission.

However a WWAN comprises a network that can include multiple transmission points each covering a corresponding geographic region referred to as a cell. As is often the case the demand for DL transmission time relative to the demand for UL transmission time and vice versa can vary sometimes greatly from cell to cell. Studies suggest that the ability to dynamically adapt to DL UL traffic demands from cell to cell could improve the efficiencies of WWANs greatly improving data throughput. Cells would not be locked into timeslots for directional traffic. Instead one cell could have an UL DL TDD configuration different from its neighbor allowing it to adapt to its own directional traffic needs. Yet a common UL DL TDD configuration is currently applied across WWANs to avoid potential interference from adjacent transmission points scheduled for differing UL and DL transmission directions.

Although the WWANs can currently adapt to relative DL and UL traffic demands to form a homogeneous network with each transmission point having the same TDD configuration the superior efficiencies of adapting to such demands on a transmission point level can be difficult due to the ensuing interference that can be caused by the differing configurations. However heterogeneous deployments where low power transmission points representing small cells operate at the same or different carrier frequencies relative to high power transmission points have opened possibilities to adapt UL DL configurations in small cells due to much higher isolation between those cells.

Differing directional traffic does not have the same impact between all transmission points. To determine the impact measurements of potential interference or coupling between pairs of transmission points can be made. Where a high potential for interference is measured between a pair of transmission points the pair of transmission points can be coupled in a common cluster. Where adjacent clusters share one or more common transmission points they can also be merged into a common cluster. The common cluster can apply a common UL DL TDD configuration to avoid any potential interference between the transmission points in the common cluster.

However where a low potential for interference exists for transmission points in a WWAN the transmission points can be isolated in different clusters. At times transmission points can be isolated as the single element in the cluster to which they belong. Since the potential for interference is low different clusters can have different UL DL TDD configurations. As a result UL DL TDD configurations can be assigned with a much improved level of granularity paving the way for transmission points to independently adapt to changing directional traffic demands and for large improvements in the efficiency. Additional details are discussed below.

The eNodeBs of the various cells are configured to support both Up Link UL and Down Link DL transmissions from and to one or more units of User Equipment UE within the various corresponding cells. To accommodate UL and DL transmissions the WWAN uses Time Division Duplexing TDD to separate transmissions from the eNodeBs to UEs referred to as DL transmissions and transmissions from the UEs to the eNodeBs referred to as UL transmissions. TDD can be used to assign UL and DL transmissions to different timeslots. By assigning UL and DL transmissions to different timeslots interference between the transmissions with differing directional traffic can be avoided. For instance the interference may be caused by a relatively high power signal from a DL transmission that interferes with a lower power signal from an UL transmission i.e. that has an opposite direction from the DL transmission within substantially the same time period .

Each cell contains a number of arrows to and from various UEs located within each cell. The thin dashed arrows pointing toward the eNodeBs represent an average amount of time spent in UL transmission for a given time. Similarly the thick solid arrows pointing away from the eNodeBs to the UEs represent an average amount of time spent in DL transmission for the given time. Therefore the relative number of UL arrows to DL arrows depicts the relative amount of directional traffic demands in terms of DL and UL transmissions that each cell experiences over the given amount of time.

Two of the cells depicted experience a markedly greater load of DL traffic relative to the two other cells depicted . Over a given amount of time each cell can experience different amounts of DL and UL directional traffic. Therefore efficient use of temporal resources would dictate the use by each cell of a different amount of timeslots dedicated to UL transmissions and to DL transmissions. Throughout this application the allocation of different numbers of timeslots to DL and UL directional traffic for a given amount of time is defined as an UL DL configuration and or a TDD configuration.

The direction of transmission between the first eNodeB may differ from that of the second eNodeB because the direction of transmission at the two eNodeBs is determined by different UL DL TDD configurations . The direction of transmission for timeslots at the first eNodeB is determined by a first UL DL TDD configuration whereas the direction of transmission for timeslots at the second eNodeB is determined by a second UL DL TDD configuration.

The first and second UL DL TDD configurations are divided up into 10 different sub frames . As used herein a sub frame corresponds to an amount of time i.e. a time slot for which a transmission point such as an eNodeB is scheduled for a single direction of traffic whether UL or DL. In at the fifth sub frame labeled sub frame the first eNodeB is scheduled for downlink transmission according to the first UL DL TDD configuration . This is in conflict with the scheduling for UL reception at the fifth sub frame labeled sub frame according to the second UL DL TDD configuration of the second eNodeB . The conflict in the direction of transmission between the two eNodeBs sets the stage for two types of interference.

A first type of interference is depicted with a large X where the bold solid arrow representing the DL transmission from the first eNodeB crosses the thin dashed arrow representing the UL transmission from the second UE associated with the second eNodeB . The UL transmission is also represented by the curved wave lines emanating from the second UE. In this first type of interference the DL transmission from the first eNodeB interferers with UL transmissions that the second eNodeB is scheduled to receive.

Since the DL transmission from the first eNodeB interferes with the UL reception at the second eNodeB this first type of interference is referred to herein as transmission point to transmission point interference and or eNodeB to eNodeB interference. Due to the power levels at which eNodeBs commonly transmit DL transmissions this first type of interference can be the most problematic as indicated by the large size of the X in . Indeed the received power of the useful signal from the second UE can often be lower than the power of the interference from the DL transmission. This can make it difficult or impossible for the UL transmission to be received at the second eNodeB.

A second type of interference is also depicted in with a smaller X where the curved wave lines emanating from the second UE associated with UL transmission from the second eNodeB cross the bold solid arrow representing the DL transmission from the first eNodeB . The UL transmission is also represented by the thin dashed arrow. This second type of interference arises from the interference caused by the UL transmission from the second UE with the DL transmission from the first eNodeB as it is received by the first UE associated with the first eNodeB.

Since the UL transmission from the second UE interferes with the reception at the first UE of the DL transmission from the first eNodeB this second type of interference is referred to herein as wireless mobile device to wireless mobile device interference and or UE to UE interference. Since UEs commonly transmit at lower powers than eNodeBs due to UL power control that compensates for pathloss propagation in certain scenarios UE to UE interference can arise where a UE engaged in UL transmission corresponding to the second UE in is sufficiently close to a DL receiving UE corresponding to the first UE in . Depending on the embodiment such distances may be measured in tens to hundreds of meters. Therefore UE to UE interference is depicted with a smaller X. 

The conflicts between transmission directions arising from the use of the first UL DL TDD configuration and the second UL DL TDD configuration by two adjacent eNodeBs provide only some examples of instances where such conflicts can arise. Several other examples can be demonstrated from the table of possible UL DL TDD configurations depicted in . The possibilities arising from the table are not intended to be limiting. A number of different UL DL TDD configurations may or may not be used that are not depicted in the table depending on network configuration network usage load and other features as can be appreciated. The table merely depicts UL DL TDD configurations specified for Release 9 of the Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE standards. However other approaches to UL DL TDD configurations are possible.

In the table each configuration of the seven UL DL TDD configurations occupies a frame which corresponds to 10 ms of transmission time. After the time required for frame transmission elapses a chosen UL DL TDD configuration can be repeated or a new one chosen. Each frame can comprise ten 1 ms sub frames. Each sub frame can correspond to a timeslot.

Accordingly each sub frame can be allocated for either UL transmission indicated in with a U or DL transmission indicated by a D. Certain sub frames can also be allocated for special transmission periods indicated by an S such as those for Downlink Pilot Timeslot DwPTS Guard Period GP and Uplink Pilot Timeslot UpPTS transmissions. As can be appreciated each UL DL TDD configuration corresponds to a different pattern of DL and UL transmission allocations with differing amounts of allocations for UL transmissions relative to DL transmissions. These differing patterns lead to the potential for interference between adjacent cells with eNodeBs with differing TDD configurations.

The simulations involve four LPNs that are randomly distributed apart from one another. The CDF corresponding to the solid curve reports the case where all pico cells are engaged in DL transmission. The dotted curve corresponds to the CDF where half of the pico cells are engaged in UL transmission and half are engaged in DL transmission. The CDF corresponding to the dashed curve reports the case where half of the pico cells are engaged in DL transmission and half are turned off. Conversely the CDF corresponding to the mixed dashed and dotted curve reports the case where half of the pico cells are engaged in UL transmission and half are turned off.

In the SINR is measured at a UE that receives DL transmission from the LPN. Where all the LPNs are also engaged in DL transmission solid curve the DL transmissions from the LPNs interfere at the UE side. Therefore the CDF for this scenario represents the lowest SINRs.

The SINR of the CDF however stays low even when half of the LPNs are switched from DL transmission to UL transmission dotted line . The contribution of UE to UE interference can be seen when the scenario with 50 DL LPN transmission and 50 UL LPN transmission dotted curve is compared to the scenario with 50 DL LPN transmission and 50 of the LPNs turned off dashed curve for which SINR values in the corresponding CDF are slightly higher. The final CDF for the scenario with 50 UL LPN transmission and 50 of the LPNs turned off mixed dashed and dotted curve corresponds to the highest values for SINR.

The CDF corresponding to the solid bold curve reports the case where half of the pico cells are engaged in UL transmission and half are engaged in DL transmission. The dashed curve corresponds to the CDF where half of the pico cells are engaged in DL transmission and half are turned off. The CDF corresponding to the solid plain curve reports the case where all pico cells are engaged in UL transmission. The dotted curve represents the CDF for the case where half of the pico cells are engaged in UL transmission and half are turned off.

The strong potential impact of eNodeB to eNodeB interference can be seen clearly in the various CDFs depicted in . In the figure SINR is measured at the eNodeB receiving UL transmission from a UE within the MCN s coverage area. A shelf spanning approximately 30 dB circled by the dashed ellipse in corresponds to eNodeB to eNodeB interference problems for two of the scenarios reported with CDFs. As can be appreciate this eNodeB to eNodeB interference as explained in can take the power associated with the useful signal below the power associated with noise and interference.

The CDFs manifesting eNodeB to eNodeB interference both involve scenarios where DL transmissions interfere with the UL transmission. The most pronounced interference arises in the scenario with 50 of the LPNs engaged in DL transmission and 50 engaged in UL transmission solid bold curve . The interference remains strong albeit slightly reduced for the scenario with 50 of the LPNs engaged in DL transmission and 50 are turned off dashed curve presumably reducing UL to UL interference.

However much larger improvements in SINR are seen where none of the LPNs are engaged in DL transmission potentially interfering with UL reception. Where all the LPNs are engaged in UL transmission solid plain curve SINR greatly improves. The SINR is slightly better where 50 of the LPNs are engaged in UL transmissions and 50 of the LPNs are off dotted line . Again this additional improvement presumably results from reducing UL to UL interference by removing approximately half of the UL transmissions from UEs.

The problems of UE to UE and eNode to eNodeB interference arising where adjacent cells have differing transmission directions are significant. Therefore a common UL DL TDD configuration is currently imposed across cellular networks to avoid differing transmission directions and the types of interference appointed therewith. However this blanket approach results in large inefficiencies. This is because the need for UL transmission resources to DL transmission resources often varies greatly across such a network with respect to geographic region and with respect to time. If therefore interference problems could be mitigated so that one cell could have an UL DL TDD configuration different from its neighbors timeslots for transmission directions could be used more efficiently to adopt to changing directional traffic loads in different regions of the network.

Three different eNodeBs or transmission points and are depicted in . Although only three eNodeBs are depicted any number of eNodeBs can be involved. Also although the eNodeBs are depicted as LPNs any combination of LPNs and MCNs are possible. The first eNodeB in the example of has a corresponding cell defined by a coverage area with multiple UEs therein. An example UE is labeled to indicate the appearance of UEs in the figure. Similarly the second eNodeB also has a corresponding cell defined by a coverage area with multiple UEs therein. Likewise the third eNodeB also has a corresponding cell defined by a coverage area with multiple UEs therein.

As indicated by the solid bold arrow a relatively strong level of coupling interference exists between the first eNodeB and the second eNodeB . However as indicated by the first dashed thin arrow a relatively weak level of coupling interference exists between the first eNodeB and the third eNodeB . Additionally as indicated by the second thin dashed arrow another relatively low level of coupling interference also exists between the second eNodeB and the third eNodeB .

To determine the level of coupling interference between itself and the second eNodeB the first eNodeB can measure a unit of coupling information make a coupling measurement or determine a coupling level between the first eNodeB and the second eNodeB . The measurement can be based on DL transmission from the second eNodeB such as the measurement of a pathgain from one or more reference signals in the DL transmission. Cell specific reference signals channel state information reference signals or other signals can be used to measure pathgain. Based on such measurements transmit power reduction can be applied between cells in order to reduce coupling and make those cells more isolated in the sense that opposite transmission direction does not deteriorate their performance.

Several other types of measurements are also possible including by way of illustration and without limitation a measurement of received signal strength a Reference Signal Received Power RSRP measurement and a Reference Signal Received Quality RSRQ measurement. The RSRP and RSRQ measurements can be defined in one or more of the standards for Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Release 8 Release 9 Release 10 and Release 11. Throughout this application Release 11 can refer to the prerelease issued by 3GPP LTE in the spring of 2012.

Once a unit of coupling information has been measured a clustering determination can be made based on the measured unit of coupling information. Where the measured unit of coupling information indicates a high level of coupling interference between the first eNodeB and the second eNodeB a determination can be made to cluster the first eNodeB and the second eNodeB for purposes of UL DL TDD configuration. Where the coupling information indicates a relatively low level of coupling interference a determination can be made that the first eNodeB and the second eNodeB are sufficiently isolated to have different UL DL TDD configurations in the different clusters to which they below.

A determination on which transmission points can be clustered together to reduce undesirable levels of coupling interference and which transmission points can maintain a different TDD configuration due to relatively low levels of coupling interference can be made on the basis of one or more conditions being met. As an example a first condition can be that a performance of the first eNodeB is not substantially degraded by a transmission direction of an adjacent eNodeB. A second condition can be that a change of the transmission direction of the adjacent eNodeB does not substantially degrade the performance of the first eNodeB. Other conditions are possible. In some embodiments substantial degradation can be identified relative to a selected coupling threshold level value.

A coupling threshold level can be determined by an estimate of a level of inter cell interference calculated from the unit of coupling information where a transmission power of the adjacent eNodeB is known. In some embodiments coupling interference can be determined based on an average power of a useful UL signal measured in a time slot when UEs are scheduled for UL transmission to the measuring eNodeB. The cluster threshold can be determined based on an average level of UL measurements from multiple eNodeBs. Other approaches for selecting a coupling threshold level are also possible as can be appreciated.

A determination that the first eNodeB and the second eNodeB can be isolated due to a relatively low level of coupling interference can result in configuring the first eNodeB with a first UL DL TDD configuration independent from a potentially differing UL DL TDD configuration for the second eNodeB. The ability to assign differing UL DL TDD configurations can increases the efficiency with which timeslots are scheduled for directional traffic. Conversely where a determination has been made to cluster the first eNodeB and the second eNodeB they can be configured with a common UL DL TDD configuration. The common UL DL TDD configuration can mitigate eNodeB to eNodeB and UE to UE interference where a measurement indicating a relatively high level of coupling indicates that these forms of interference could be a problem. Coordination of the common UL DL TDD configuration can occur over a backhaul link between the first eNodeB and the second eNodeB. The backhaul link between the eNodeBs may be preexisting or established or modified on the basis of the determination. In certain embodiments the coordination can be achieved over an X2 interface as defined in one or more of the standards for 3GPP LTE Release 8 Release 9 Release 10 and Release 11. Alternatively if one eNodeB controls several cells it can be implemented in a vendor specific protocol.

Similar measurements can be made between additional eNodeBs within the MAN resulting in a number of different clusters which can have anywhere from a single transmission point to many transmission points therein. Due to the relatively high level of coupling interference in the example of the first eNodeB and the second eNodeB are included in a common cluster . Both eNodeBs in the common cluster can be configured with a common UL DL TDD configuration corresponding to UL DL TDD configuration in the table provided in for which additional eNodeBs could also be configured if they were assigned to the same cluster.

However the third eNodeB has relatively low coupling interferences between the third eNodeB and the first eNodeB and the second eNodeB . Accordingly the third eNodeB can be isolated in its own cluster . Since it is isolated in its own cluster the third eNodeB can have a different UL DL TDD configuration such as the different isolated UL DL TDD configuration corresponding to UL DL TDD configuration in the table provided in for the isolated cluster depicted in .

Due to the differing UL DL TDD configurations in at the fifth timeslot sub frame indicated by number the UEs within the third coverage area corresponding to the isolated cluster are engaged in UL transmission . At the same time the first eNodeB and the second eNodeB within the first coverage area and the second coverage area respectively of the common cluster are engaged in DL transmission . Hence the differing directional transmission traffic demands within the two clusters can be efficiently accommodated with differing UL DL TDD configurations without leading to unacceptable eNodeB to eNodeB and UE to UE interference problems. Additionally these UL DL TDD configurations can be changed independently in near real time to adapt to changing directional traffic demands within the two clusters that can be constantly monitored.

The two coupling levels above a coupling threshold can be the basis for forming a first cluster with the first eNodeB and the second eNodeB and a second cluster with the fourth eNodeB and the fifth eNodeB . Since there is no coupling level above the coupling threshold between the third eNodeB and any other eNodeB a third cluster with a single eNodeB can be formed. Each cluster can have a different UL DL TDD configuration as indicated by the first UL DL TDD configuration corresponding to UL DL TDD configuration in the table provided in for the first cluster the second UL DL TDD configuration corresponding to UL DL TDD configuration in the table provided in FIG. for the second cluster and the third UL DL TDD configuration corresponding to UL DL TDD configuration in the table provided in for the third cluster .

The three clusters are depicted at the fifth timeslot sub frame labeled where potential conflicts in directional traffic exist but interference problems are mitigated by the formation of different clusters. Potential conflicts also exist on the eighth and ninth sub frames labeled and respectively . As can be appreciated from the various arrows between UEs and eNodeBs the formation of several different clusters allows the WWAN to adapt in near real time to differing directional transmission traffic loads within the different clusters. Differing traffic loads are depicted by differing numbers of arrows from UEs to eNodeBs and from eNodeBs to UEs depicting differing relative demands for UL and DL transmissions respectively. An example UE is labeled to indicate the appearance of additional UEs in the figure. As can be appreciated the various UL DL TDD configurations and are tailored to meet these demands for UL and DL transmissions.

To facilitate the determination of UL DL TDD configurations and eNodeBs can communicate their directional traffic needs between one another over low latency backhaul infrastructure. Individual eNodeBs within a cluster can be configured to send traffic direction information about traffic direction needs and receive such traffic direction information. Decisions about a common UL DL TDD configuration or a restricted set of UL DL configurations for a cluster and can be made on the basis of joint UL and DL needs throughout the cluster and or splitting differences between UL and DL traffic demands at individual eNodeBs in the cluster.

Decisions about UL DL TDD configurations can be made at individual eNodeBs and or at a network level. Where determinations are made at a network level information used to make such determinations can be communicated to the network level over an S1 interface as described in any combination of Release 8 Release 9 Release 10 and Release 11 of the 3GPP LTE specifications. Determinations for UL DL TDD configurations for different clusters can be constantly made and updated independent of one another to respond to dynamically changing directional traffic loads monitored within individual clusters.

Based on the three coupling levels above the coupling threshold three clusters can be formed a first cluster between the first eNodeB and the second eNodeB a second cluster between the third eNodeB and the fourth eNodeB and a fifth cluster between the fourth eNodeB and the fifth eNodeB . As can be appreciated however the second cluster and the third cluster share a common eNodeB the fourth eNodeB . Therefore to avoid potential eNodeB to eNodeB interference the second and third clusters can be merged .

The action of merging the second cluster and the third cluster results in a different prior clustering configuration before accomplishment of the merger with respect to a post clustering arrangement afterward. After accomplishment of the merger only a small cluster and a large cluster remain. In certain embodiments by way of illustration and not limitation a merger determination can be made in response to an eNodeB list communicated over backhaul infrastructure such as an X2 interface and an S1 interface from one or more adjacent clusters. The eNodeB list can include a list of eNodeBs within a cluster such that the presence of one or more common intersection eNodeBs between clusters can be determined. Where one or more common intersection eNodeBs are present between clusters a determination to merge clusters can be made. Where there are not one or more common intersection eNodeBs present a determination to leave the clusters unaltered may be made depending on potential coupling threshold level values.

The merger process can also be performed in reverse. Where one or more common eNodeBs no longer connects portions of a larger cluster according to an updated measurement the larger cluster can be divided into smaller clusters. Conversely where the one or more previously common eNodeBs again become active in ways that justify reconnecting the larger cluster the cluster should be reformed.

Additionally in certain embodiments a potential for sub clustering can be capitalized upon. Although both the third eNodeB and the fifth eNodeB share coupling levels above a coupling threshold with the fourth eNodeB another coupling level between the third and fifth eNodeBs is below the coupling threshold as indicated by the thin dashed arrow. Since the fourth eNodeB is still shared in common the third and fourth eNodeBs belong to the same cluster . However due to the low coupling level between the third and the fifth eNodeBs small variations can be appropriate in the configurations of the third and fifth eNodeBs for different scenarios.

One such scenario provided by way of illustration and not limitation can include a scenario where the forth eNodeB is scheduled to transmit an Almost Blank Sub frame ABS . Other non limiting scenarios include scenarios where the fourth eNodeB is configured to engage in beam forming and or power reduction during certain timeslots sub frames. During such timeslots and sub frames the third eNodeB and the fifth eNodeB can engage in transmissions with conflicting directions because of the relatively low coupling level between them. Therefore the merged larger cluster can be divided into sub clusters which can have different UL DL TDD configurations on sub frames for scenarios similar to those described above. depicts such sub clusters in terms of a first sub cluster for the third eNodeB and a second sub cluster for the fourth eNodeB. Although the sub clusters in only comprise one eNodeB multiple eNodeB within a single sub cluster are also possible.

The process continues by making a clustering determination . The step of making a clustering determination can be broken out into a sub routine involving comparing the unit of coupling information to the coupling threshold. Within the sub routine a decision can then be made as to whether a coupling metric related to the coupling information such as a pathgain in one non limiting example is below a coupling threshold. If the answer is yes a determination is made that the measuring eNodeB can be isolated in a different cluster from the adjacent eNodeB. Where the answer is no a determination can be made that the pair of eNodeBs can be combined in a common cluster.

After the isolation decision the clustering determination sub routine is complete. The method then continues by carrying out one of the determinations as indicated by the determination sub routine making that sure the measuring eNodeB and the adjacent eNodeB are in the right cluster or clusters relative to one another. The process can then continue for another pair of eNodeBs in a WWAN.

The chart reports the study results for a scenario where 50 of the LPNs are engaged in UL transmission and 50 of the clusters are engaged in DL transmission. As indicated in the table of threshold values the CDF with respect to SINR is reported for various coupling thresholds in the table. The coupling threshold can as discussed above determine whether one transmission point can be isolated from another so that it can independently adapt to the directional traffic needs within its coverage area.

Where a coupling metric from a measured unit is above the coupling threshold eNodeB to eNodeB interference and or UE to UE interference can be deemed to be sufficiently great not to allow the pair of eNodeBs for which the measurement was made to be isolated in different clusters with different directional traffic. Conversely where the coupling metric for a coupling measurement is below the coupling threshold the pair of eNodeBs can be allowed to adapt independently to the directional traffic loads which they experience. Therefore the determination of the coupling threshold can involve a tradeoff between traffic adaption associated with many clusters and small numbers of eNodeBs therein and avoiding eNodeB to eNodeB interference and or UR to UR interference. This tradeoff is demonstrated in the chart and its accompanying graphs .

Table indicates that the long dashed curve reports the CDF with respect to SINR for the scenario where no clustering is allowed. This scenario is similar to the scenario depicted by the bold solid curve in . The solid bold cure depicts the results for the highest coupling threshold value of 60 dB which refers to a value for a measured path gain. However other coupling metrics are possible in alternative embodiments. Results are also reported for coupling thresholds of 70 dB short dashed curve 80 dB dotted curve and 90 dB solid curve which is the lowest coupling threshold value.

A CDF of cluster size in terms of eNodeBs in a given cluster is provided in a first graph for the highest clustering threshold of 60 dB. A second graph provides the CDF for the lowest clustering threshold of 90 dB. A raised clustering threshold allows more eNodeBs to be isolated from one another in more clusters of smaller sizes. Hence the first graph for the highest clustering threshold reports a CDF with over 90 of clusters including a single eNodeB. Almost each transmission point therefore would be allowed to independently adapt to the directional traffic demands placed upon it. However the relatively high value for the coupling threshold as indicated by the chart does not do much to improve SINR meaning the eNodeB to eNodeB interference and or UE to UE interference can be problems.

At the other extreme a coupling threshold of 90 dB prevents more eNodeB to eNodeB interference and or UE to UE interference placing a greater restriction on transmission points that can have different directional traffic. As a result chart indicates that SINR is greatly improved. However the second graph corresponding to this low coupling threshold shows that fewer clusters are formed and those clusters tend to have more eNodeBs within them. For example only about 65 of transmission points are able to independently adapt to directional traffic demands making the network as a whole less capable of adapting to these demands.

As demonstrated by therefore the coupling threshold is an optimization parameter. The optimization parameter can be optimized for a particular WWAN in terms of competing needs to avoid eNodeB to eNodeB interference and or UE to UE interference on one side and to adapt to directional traffic demands on the other side. In some embodiments such optimization can be automated based on feedback. Such feedback can include by way of example and not limitation feedback about throughput a pathgain measurement SINR directional traffic loading at one or more transmission points and or one or more coupling levels.

The CDFs plotted in the charts report simulations similar to those discussed above with respect to and . The simulation is conducted using File Transfer Protocol FTP traffic model parameters defined in 3GPP R1 120080 where 1 FTP file size 0.5 MB and time scales 10 ms. As indicated in the threshold table the solid curve reports the case where UL DL TDD configurations are changed semi statically measured in minutes and hours across the network in accordance to existing TDD technologies.

The long dashed curves depict the results for a coupling threshold of 90 dB which refers to a value for a measured path gain. However other coupling metrics are possible in alternative embodiments. Results are also reported for coupling thresholds of 80 dB dotted curve and 70 dB short dashed curve . A mixed dashed and dotted curve is provided to indicate what the CDFs for packet throughput would be in a hypothetical case if each transmission point could adapt independently to directional traffic needs without worrying about interference.

As can be appreciated the packet throughputs are increased by almost 10 Mbps for the DL reception at a UE and by more than 5 Mbps at the UL reception at the transmission point. Therefore the proposed approaches to interference management can be used to resolve the eNodeB to eNodeB interference and or UE to UE interference problems. Furthermore the proposed solutions are applicable for different types of deployment scenarios.

The method comprises measuring at a first eNodeB a unit of coupling information between the first eNodeB and an adjacent eNodeB. The unit of coupling information is used to make a clustering determination. The clustering determination as depicted in block can be a first determination that the first eNodeB and the adjacent eNodeB belong in a common cluster. Conversely the clustering determination can be a second determination that the first eNodeB and the adjacent eNodeB are isolated meaning they can be in different clusters. Where the first determination has been made the method further comprises configuring the first eNodeB and the adjacent eNodeB with a common UL DL configuration. Where the second determination has been made the method further comprises configuring the first eNodeB with a first UL DL configuration independently from a potentially differing UL DL configuration pertaining to the adjacent eNodeB.

In certain embodiments making the clustering determination based on the unit of coupling information further comprises reaching the first determination where at least one of a first condition and a second condition is met. The first condition is that a performance of the first eNodeB is not substantially degraded by a transmission direction of the adjacent eNodeB. The second condition is that a change of the transmission direction of the adjacent eNodeB does not substantially degrade the performance of the first eNodeB. If the right combination of these two conditions is not met the second determination is reached.

In some embodiments a coupling metric is selected to characterize the unit of coupling information. A coupling threshold is also used to determine that the performance of the first eNodeB is substantially degraded where the unit of coupling information is either at or above the coupling threshold for the coupling metric. Otherwise a determination is made that the first eNodeB is not substantially degraded where the unit of coupling information is below the coupling threshold for the coupling metric.

Such embodiments can further comprise determining the coupling threshold based on one of several different possibilities. One example of such a possibility is an estimate of a level of inter cell interference calculated from the unit of coupling information where a transmission power of the adjacent eNodeB is known. Another example is an average power of a useful UL signal. Yet another example is an average level of uplink inter cell interference where all eNodeBs in the common cluster operate to receive uplink transmission.

Certain embodiments can comprise merging the common cluster with a second cluster. The clusters are merged in such embodiments where the common cluster and the second cluster have at least one eNodeB in common. This one or more eNodeBs couple the common and adjacent clusters. Similarly certain embodiments can comprise dividing a merged cluster into sub clusters. This division can take place where one or more adapted eNodeBs within the merged cluster can adapt to changing traffic demands in a manner such that the following scenario is met. The scenario is that the first condition and the second condition as discussed above no longer obtain between the one or more adapted eNodeBs and one or more additional eNodeBs in the merged cluster. When this scenario is met each sub cluster can apply a different UL DL configuration.

The method can further comprise adapting a UL DL configuration in substantially real time to changing uplink and downlink traffic demands at any of the first eNodeB and the adjacent eNodeB. The adapted UL DL configuration can pertain to the common UL DL configuration where the first determination discussed above has been made. The changing uplink and downlink traffic demands can be communicated between eNodeBs in the common cluster over a low latency backhaul infrastructure. Alternatively the adapted UL DL configuration can pertain to the he first TDD configuration where the second determination discussed above has been made.

The method can also further comprise communicating at least one of UL and DL traffic needs between the first eNodeB and the adjacent eNodeB in the common cluster over a low latency backhaul infrastructure. In some embodiments the method can further comprise determining at least one of the common UL DL configuration and a restricted set of UL DL configurations for the common UL DL configuration. This determination can be made on the basis of at least one of joint UL and DL needs throughout the common cluster. The determination can also be made by splitting a difference between UL and DL traffic demands at the first eNodeB and the adjacent eNodeB in the common cluster.

The coupling measurement module can be configured to make a coupling measurement on a DL transmission from an adjacent eNodeB to the first eNodeB. The analysis module can be in communication with the coupling measurement module. Additionally the analysis module can be configured to compare the coupling measurement to a coupling threshold. Where the coupling measurement is at or above the coupling threshold the analysis module determines that the first eNodeB and the adjacent eNodeB are coupled. Where the coupling measurement is below the coupling threshold the analysis module determines that the first eNodeB and the adjacent eNodeB are isolated.

The configuration module can be in communication with the analysis module . Additionally the configuration module can be configured to identify a common UL DL configuration where the first eNodeB and the adjacent eNodeB are coupled. The configuration module can also identify a first UL DL configuration for the first eNodeB independently of a second UL DL configuration for the adjacent eNodeB where the first eNodeB and the adjacent eNodeB are isolated.

In some embodiments the device can also include a communication module in communication with the configuration module . The communication module can be configured to send traffic direction information about traffic direction needs at the first eNodeB to the adjacent eNodeB. It can also be configured to receive traffic direction information about traffic direction needs at the adjacent eNodeB.

In certain embodiments an update module can be provided in communication with the configuration module . Where the first eNodeB and the adjacent eNodeB are coupled in the common cluster the update module can be configured to update the common UL DL configuration to adapt in substantially real time to changing traffic direction needs at both the first eNodeB and the adjacent eNodeB. Where the first eNodeB and the adjacent eNodeB are isolated the update module can update the first TDD configuration independently of the second TDD configuration to adapt in real time to changing traffic direction needs at the first eNodeB.

In such embodiments a calculation module in communication with the analysis module can also be provided. The calculation module can be configured to calculate the coupling threshold. This calculation can be performed on the basis of estimating a level of DL inter cell interference by analyzing a coupling metric in terms of the coupling measurement and a transmission power of the adjacent eNodeB. The calculation can also be performed on the basis of useful signal powers associated with multiple user terminals associated with the first eNodeB. Additionally among other approaches the calculation may be made on the basis of UL inter cell interference associated with multiple deployed eNodeBs during a time where all eNodeBs operate to receive uplink transmission.

Additionally some embodiments can include an optimization module in communication with the calculation module . The optimization module can be configured to optimize the coupling threshold. Optimization within the optimization module can be based on feedback. Feedback can provide information about throughput a path gain measurement SINR system traffic loading and or cell traffic loading information among other possibilities.

Some embodiments can include a merger module in communication with the communication module . The merger module can be configured to respond to an eNodeB list from a second cluster of coupled eNodeBs. The list can be used to determine a need to merge the second cluster and a first cluster to which the eNodeB belongs. With respect to such a determination the first cluster can be any of the common cluster and the first eNodeB in isolation. Such a determination is made where the eNodeB list includes an intersection eNodeB common to the first cluster and the second cluster. Otherwise the merger module makes a determination to leave the first cluster unaltered.

Also an isolation module in communication with the communication module can be included is some embodiments. The isolation module can be configured to indicate when a second cluster and an isolated eNodeB belonging to the common cluster can have a UL DL configuration distinct from the common UL DL configuration of the common cluster. The ability to have different UL DL configurations can be due to changing transmission patterns.

The method can comprise determining a coupling level between a first eNodeB and each of at least one additional eNodeB. The method can proceed by clustering the first eNodeB with any eNodeB from the at least one additional eNodeB with a corresponding coupling level greater than a coupling threshold. The clustering can create a common cluster. The common cluster can include one of only the first eNodeB the first eNodeB and one additional eNodeB and the first eNodeB and multiple additional eNodeBs. An additional step can involve setting a common TDD configuration for the common cluster.

In embodiments where the common cluster comprises at least one additional eNodeB in addition to the first eNodeB such embodiments can further comprise communicating directional traffic information from the first eNodeB to the at least one additional eNodeB in the common cluster over a backhaul link. Such embodiments can also further comprise receiving at the first eNodeB directional traffic information over the backhaul link from the at least one additional eNodeB in the common cluster. Such embodiments can also further comprise monitoring the common cluster for changing directional traffic demands in the common cluster. Additionally they can comprise adapting the common TDD configuration for the common cluster in substantially real time. These adaptations can respond to the changing directional traffic demands independently of any TDD configuration corresponding to any eNodeB outside of the common cluster.

The coupling threshold can be calculated by using knowledge about at least one transmission power of at least one of the at least one additional eNodeBs to estimate a level of inter cell interference. In certain embodiments the coupling threshold may be calculated by averaging a plurality of useful signal powers associated with multiple eNodeBs in the common cluster. Also the coupling threshold can be calculated by averaging a plurality of levels of UL inter cell interference associated with multiple eNodeBs in the common cluster. These levels of uplink inter cell interference can be measured during a time where all eNodeBs in the common cluster operate to receive uplink transmission. Additional approaches to calculating the coupling threshold apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art are possible. Also some embodiments can further comprise optimizing the coupling threshold with feedback about one or both of throughput received at the at least one additional eNodeB and a coupling level for the at least one additional eNodeB.

The method can also further comprise acquiring a list of eNodeBs in a second cluster of eNodeBs from a contact eNodeB in the second cluster of eNodeBs. The second cluster of eNodeBs can have any number of member eNodeBs including a single member eNodeB. Where the common cluster and the second cluster share an intersection eNodeB such embodiments can further comprise merging the second cluster of eNodeBs with the common cluster for purposes of determining the common TDD configuration.

The interference module can be configured to estimate an interference level from a DL eNodeB as received at the first eNodeB. The isolation module in communication with the interference module can be configured to indicate where the interference level is sufficiently low to allow the first eNodeB to be isolated. An isolated first eNodeB can accommodate UL transmission while the downlink eNodeB transmits a downlink transmission. Where the interference level is sufficiently high the isolation module can require the first eNodeB and the downlink eNodeB to be aggregated in a common cluster to synchronize or coordinate transmission directions. The traffic response module in communication with the isolation module can be configured to create a TDD configuration. Where the first eNodeB belongs to the common cluster the TDD configuration can respond to directional traffic for eNodeBs associated with the first eNodeB in the common cluster. Where the first eNodeB is isolated the TDD configuration can independently respond to directional traffic for the first eNodeB.

A monitoring module can also be included in the device in communication with the traffic response module . The monitoring module can be configured to monitor directional traffic for eNodeBs associated with the first eNodeB in the common cluster where the first eNodeB belongs to the common cluster. In such embodiments directional traffic information can be communicated from at least one other eNodeB in the common cluster to the first eNodeB over a low latency backhaul infrastructure. Where the first eNodeB is isolated the monitoring module can monitor just the first eNodeB. The monitoring module can also indicate to the traffic response module when to change the TDD configuration to accommodate a change in directional traffic in substantially real time.

The device can also include a merger module in communication with the traffic response module . The merger module can be configured to include at least one of an additional eNodeB and an additional cluster to the common cluster. This addition can be made upon a determination that at least one of the additional eNodeB and the additional cluster share a common eNodeB with the common cluster. Additionally the device can include a balancing module in communication with the traffic response module. The balance module can be configured to reconcile competing uplink and downlink directional traffic demands at different eNodeBs within the common cluster to create the TDD configuration. The TDD configuration can be created so as to respond to the competing traffic demands.

Some embodiments can include an optimization module in communication with the isolation module . The isolation module can be configured to optimize a coupling threshold used to determine whether the first eNodeB belongs to the common cluster by monitoring the inter cell interference level from opposite transmission directions of adjacent cells. The optimization module can also optimize the coupling threshold by analyzing traffic adaptation capabilities and traffic demands within a set of isolated cells and a set of common cell clusters

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of materials fasteners sizes lengths widths shapes etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

