---

title: Methods for improving contact lens comfort
abstract: Dry eye treatment apparatus and methods are described herein which generally comprise a patch or strip affixed to the skin of the upper and/or lower eyelids to deliver heat or other forms of energy, pressure, drugs, moisture, etc. (alone or in combination) to the one or more meibomian glands contained within the underlying skin. The treatment strip or strips include one or more strips configured to adhere to an underlying region of skin in proximity to one or both eyes of a subject such that the one or more strips allow for the subject to blink naturally without restriction from the one or more patches. Moreover, the one or more strips may be configured to emit energy to the underlying region of skin and where the one or more strips are shaped to follow a location of one or more meibomian glands contained within the underlying region of skin.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09642743&OS=09642743&RS=09642743
owner: Sight Sciences, Inc.
number: 09642743
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20161205
---
This is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 645 985 filed Oct. 5 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 510 972 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 343 407 filed Jan. 4 2012 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to methods and apparatus for treatment of dry eye syndrome and other related conditions. More particularly the present invention relates to methods and apparatus for the treatment of dry eye syndrome using adhesive strips which are specifically contoured or shaped to adhere to selected regions around a patient s eyes or peri orbital region.

Tears are a complex mixture of water lipids mucus proteins and electrolytes and this mixture helps to maintain a smooth and clear optical surface and also helps to protect the eyes from infection. The tear film has three basic layers oil water and mucus and problems or disturbances in any of these layers can cause dry eyes symptoms.

The outermost layer of the tear film is typically comprised of an oil layer containing fatty acids and lipids meibum which are produced primarily by sebaceous glands called the meibomian glands located along the eyelid margin. The oil layer smoothes the tear surface and slows evaporation of the watery middle layer. However if the meibomian glands fail to produce enough oil produce suboptimal fatty acid mixtures or if the glands become obstructed or clogged the watery layer typically evaporates too quickly causing dry eyes. A blockage of the meibomian glands can lead to enlarged glands or infections. Dry eyes are thus common in people whose meibomian glands are obstructed or functioning improperly.

The middle layer of tears is composed primarily of an aqueous solution which is produced by the lacrimal glands tear glands . The middle layer cleanses the eyes and washes away foreign particles or irritants maintains a clear optical medium and keeps the ocular surface moist. The innermost layer of the tear film is composed primarily of mucus which helps to spread the tears evenly over the surface of the eyes. A lack of mucus in the tear film is also associated with dry eye syndrome.

As discussed above the meibomian glands are oil secreting glands located within both the upper and lower eyelids. There are approximately 30 to 40 glands along the upper eyelid and approximately 20 to 30 glands along the lower eyelid with the ducts for each of the glands opening along the inner edge of the free margin of the respective lids by minute foramina through which their secretion is released to prevent the lids adhering to each other. An example of the location of the meibomian glands is illustrated in the cross sectional view of the upper eyelid UL shown in which illustrates the relative positioning of a single meibomian gland MG. Other glands and anatomical features are illustrated for reference e.g. the glands of Wolfring GW tarsus TR gland of Moll GM gland of Zeis GZ gland of Krause GK upper fornix UF conjunctiva CN and cornea CR of the eye which is partially covered by the upper eyelid UL. As illustrated the meibomian gland MG is positioned along a length of the upper eyelid UL and lower eyelid LL with the duct opening along the inner edge of the eyelid UL in proximity to a surface of the underlying eye.

Blinking is thought to be the primary mechanism to open the orifice of the meibomian glands to allow for the release of oil secretions from the glands. The natural blinking motion and blinking force causes the upper lid to pull a sheet of the lipids secreted by the meibomian glands over the two underlying layers of the tear film thus forming the protective coating which limits the rate at which the underlying layers evaporate. It is estimated that approximately 65 of meibomian gland disease or dry eye results from a defective lipid layer or an insufficient quantity of such lipids that results in accelerated evaporation of the aqueous layer. Hence blinking disorders or other disorders that affect proper tear distribution may also cause or exacerbate meibomian gland dysfunction or dry eye.

As the eyelids close in a total blink the superior and inferior fornices which hold a reservoir of tears are compressed by the force of the preseptal muscles and the eyelids move toward one another. The upper eyelid for instance moves over the eye while exerting upon the eye surface a force which helps to clear the front of the eye of debris insoluble mucin and also expresses the oil secretions from the meibomian glands. The lower lid moves horizontally in the nasal direction and pushes debris toward both punctae the openings that ultimately drain into the nasal cavities.

As the eyelids open the tear film is redistributed where the upper lid pulls the aqueous phase via capillary action and the lipid layer spreads as quickly as the eyelids move. Hence eyelid movement is accordingly important in tear film renewal distribution turnover and drainage.

For a variety of reasons the meibomian glands can become blocked plugged or occluded resulting in meibomian gland dysfunction and dry eye disease. The obstruction that triggers the disease can occur anywhere within the meibomian gland for instance at the gland s surface or orifice preventing normal lipid secretions from flowing in the main channel of the gland which may be narrowed or blocked or in other locations deeper within the gland that lead to the main channel.

Treatments for blocked meibomian glands may include a number of conventional treatments. One course of treatment includes the application of soap and cleaning agents eyelid scrubs or antibiotics to reduce eyelid inflammation. Antibiotics such as tetracycline doxycycline metronidazole or erythromycin can be administered orally or topically to help regulate or improve meibomian gland lipid production. Inflammation on the surface of the eye may also be controlled with topical drugs such as corticosteroids or cyclosporine RESTASIS Allergan Inc. CA or other anti inflammatory compounds or immune suppressants. Evidence suggests that ocular surface inflammation is not only associated with meibomian gland dysfunction but also with dry eye syndrome.

Other examples of dry eye treatments may include the application of prescription eye inserts for people with moderate to severe dry eyes symptoms who are unable to use artificial tears. An eye insert e.g. hydroxypropyl cellulose LACRISERT Merck Co. Inc. NJ may be inserted between the lower eyelid and eye. The insert dissolves slowly to release a substance which lubricates the eye. Alternatively special contact lenses may be used to shield the surface of the eye to trap moisture.

In other treatments the patient s tear ducts may be closed to prevent the tear film from draining away from the surface of the eye too quickly by procedures such as insertion of punctal plugs into the tear ducts or cauterizing the tissues of the drainage area. Aside from implants or cauterizing treatments dry eye syndrome may be treated using pharmaceutical agents such as eyedrops ointments which coat the eyes etc. Artificial tears gels ointments autologous serum tears or albumin drops have all been employed in the treatment of dry eye.

Additionally warm compresses are also typically placed over the eyes and are used to restore function to the meibomian glands by melting any lipid plugs as well as incorporating massaging of the lids which may further express meibomian gland contents. However application of warm compresses require their application two to three times daily during which time patients may incorrectly target only one of the affected lids and are also prevented from seeing out of the treated eye because of the compresses. Compresses may be too hot further exacerbating inflammation or they may cool too quickly preventing adequate therapeutic effect.

Other treatment devices have also been developed which cover the entire affected eye to apply heat and a massaging force directly to the affected eyelids. However such devices like the compresses require that the patient s eyes be temporarily but completely obstructed during the treatment resulting in discomfort lost productivity and potentially lower compliance among patients. Additionally these treatments require visits to a physician or healthcare provider and are not as well suited for widespread consumer adoption.

Accordingly there exists a need for methods and apparatus which are relatively simple to routinely use for the patient which also allow for the patient to continue their normal activities is non obtrusive and non disruptive and which also take advantage of the patient s natural physiological activities to facilitate treatment.

In treating conditions such as meibomian gland dysfunction or dry eye syndrome a patch or strip can be affixed to the skin of the upper and or lower eyelids to deliver heat or other forms of energy pressure drugs moisture etc. alone or in combination to the one or more meibomian glands contained within the underlying skin. In particular the assembly for the treatment strip or strips may generally comprise one or more strips configured to adhere to an underlying region of skin in proximity to one or both eyes of a subject such that the one or more strips allow for the subject to blink naturally without restriction from the one or more patches. Moreover the one or more strips may be configured to emit energy to the underlying region of skin and where the one or more strips are shaped to follow a location of one or more meibomian glands contained within the underlying region of skin.

In use the one or more strips may be adhered to a region of skin in proximity to one or both eyes of a subject such that the one or more strips allow for the subject to blink naturally without restriction from the one or more patches. While adhered the strips may emit energy to the region of skin where the one or more strips are shaped to follow a location of one or more meibomian glands contained within the region of skin. Alternatively while the strip may not directly overly a meibomian or other ocular or orbital gland it may deliver energy or absorb energy from underlying neighboring vasculature which ultimately supplies said glands. In other words heating or cooling the blood supply to the eyelids meibomian glands and or lacrimal glands using these strips may affect their function and metabolism while not necessarily needing to directly overly them in particular variations.

The upper strip may thus have an upper curved or arcuate periphery which is shaped to extend and follow the upper or superior border of the meibomian glands such as along or up to the upper eyelid crease while the straightened periphery of the lower edge may be shaped to extend and follow the lower or inferior border of the meibomian glands such as along the free margin of the upper eyelid. Although straightened the lower edge may be gently curved or arcuate in alternative variations. The lower strip may similarly have an upper straightened periphery to extend and follow the upper or superior border of the meibomian glands along the free margin of the lower eyelid and a lower curved or arcuate periphery to extend and follow the lower or inferior border of the meibomian glands along the lower eyelid such as along or up to the lower eyelid crease . Alternatively the upper periphery of the lower strip may also be gently curved or arcuate in alternative variations as well.

In other words with the tarsal plate containing the meibomian glands which span from proximal to distal the peripheral edges of the treatment strips may correspond to the distal eyelid margin and proximal peripheral edge and the treatment strips can assume multiple configurations. Generally the peripheral distal edge of the treatment strip may be relatively straight or assume a gentle curve either of which can follow the underlying distal eyelid margin and tarsal plate while having a proximal peripheral edge that is relatively curved to assume the more curved proximal edge of the underlying tarsal plate.

The strips may be used individually for placement upon only the upper eyelid or only the lower eyelid depending upon the desired treatment. Moreover the lengths of the treatment strips may also be varied to target individual meibomian glands for providing a targeted treatment if desired and as described in further detail herein. Additionally while the treatment strips may be sized generally they may also be custom made or sized for a specific individual s eyelid dimensions.

Because of the specific contoured sizes and flexibility of the treatment strips the treatment strips may be placed upon the patient to apply therapy to the underlying meibomian glands allowing the patient s eyes to be opened and closed normally without interference from one or both treatment strips. Accordingly the treatment strips contoured size shape and flexibility allow for treatment to occur while also allowing for the patient to have one or both eyes remain opened such that normal physiologic blinking can proceed during the course of treatment. Rather than relying on an application of any type of external force the treatment strips take advantage of the eye s natural mechanism for clearing oil from the meibomian glands via blinking. Hence the treatment strips may be adhered in place for treatment without any further intervention by the patient or healthcare provider such that the treatment strips may apply e.g. heat energy to melt or liquefy any waxy or solid meibomian gland obstructions while the eyes remain unobstructed and are allowed to blink naturally. The treatment strips thus allow for the natural blinking force to clear the glands of the heat treated softened obstructions before they have re solidified unlike other treatments which require that the patient keep their eyes closed or obstructed during the course of a treatment and prevent or inhibit the patient from blinking.

The treatment strip may be configured to have a contact layer e.g. fabricated from conductive materials such as metals alloys porous ceramics engineering ceramics woods polymers composites foams polymer foams fabrics elastomers etc. which may protect the skin from burns or any other adverse effects. A second heating layer may be positioned above the contact layer or directly in contact against the skin for generating the heat energy and an insulative layer may be positioned atop the heating layer for focusing directing or reflecting the heat towards the underlying skin surface as well as to protect the patient from contact with the heating layer from other parts of the body. The insulative layer may accordingly be fabricated from a variety of insulative materials e.g. foams foam tapes gauze silicone microporous polyethylene films fabrics polymers etc.

Although the application of heat energy from the treatment strips is described other variations may alternatively include the application of using the treatment strips for cooling of the underlying skin. Rather than using the heating layer in an exothermic reaction the layer may be configured to utilize an endothermic reaction instead to provide for cooling of the skin. Cooling rather than heating may be applied for conditions such as reducing inflammation alleviating allergies or tired eyes etc. particularly as the patient rests or sleeps.

Aside from the application of heat energy from the treatment strips the strips may also include a layer for the diffusion or release of one or more pharmaceutical biological or chemical agents either alone or in combination with the heat treatment. For instance the pharmaceutical biological or chemical agents may be incorporated into the either the contact layer insulative layer or in a separate layer entirely for transdermal delivery to the meibomian glands or to the areas surrounding the meibomian glands for additional and or alternative treatments. In the event that the pharmacological or chemical agent is released during the heat treatment the heat may help to improve penetration of any drugs into the underlying skin.

While the treatment strips may incorporate various layers into the strips to effect various different treatments the strips may also be varied in size shape contour etc. depending upon the desired treatment areas so long as the treatment strips are contoured or shaped to follow the location of at least one meibomian gland.

While the treatment strips may be applied to one or more of the meibomian glands variations of the strip may also be used to treat other glands such as the sebaceous glands e.g. for acne treatment. Treatment strips used to treat acne may utilize different pharmacological treatments. Moreover the treatment strips may be used to potentially treat eye disorders beyond meibomian gland dysfunction.

Yet another example may include use of the treatment strips for treating disorders of the lacrimal gland and or palpebral lacrimal gland which are located above the eye. Variously sized treatment strips such as lacrimal gland strips which are sized to have a curved upper periphery may be sized for placement directly over the skin surface above where the lacrimal glands are located. The lacrimal glands and or palpebral lacrimal gland may be treated alone or in combination with the treatment strips contoured for treatment of the meibomian glands.

While the treatment strips may be applied over the meibomian glands to apply the heat energy the treatment does not require the application of any external force applied by the strip or any other external device but may utilize the natural blinking of the patient to facilitate treatment. However in additional variations the treatment strips may be configured to apply both the heat treatment as well as an external force. Any number of mechanisms may be utilized to apply a pinching or biasing force to provide for compression of the underlying skin and of the meibomian glands during application of the heat therapy.

Aside from a compression force the strip may be formed with alternative components such as a mechanical component to impart vibrational energy or other forms of energy to facilitate the expression of the meibomian glands and promote oil secretion.

In yet another variation one or both treatment strips may be configured to incorporate an indicator e.g. LED light alarm vibration element etc. electrically coupled to a power supply and or processor to alert the patient when a prescribed treatment has been completed. This feature and any of the other features may be combined with any of the other variations of the treatment strips described herein as practicable.

With the incorporation of a processor into the treatment strips treatment times or other parameters such as temperature of the strips may be programmed and optionally shut on or off selectively by the patient or automatically. Moreover other parameters such as the frequency of the heat delivery or other stimulation may also be programmed by the processor to provide further flexibility in treatment.

In treating conditions such as meibomian gland dysfunction MGD which is commonly associated with the evaporative form of dry eye syndrome DES a patch strip or thin adhesive device can be affixed to the skin of the upper and or lower eyelids to deliver heat or other forms of energy pressure drugs moisture etc. alone or in combination to the one or more meibomian glands contained within the underlying skin. In particular the treatment strip or strips may be configured and sized specifically for placement over one or more targeted meibomian glands contained within the skin of the upper and or lower eyelids. The application of thermal therapy e.g. heating or cooling can cross the eyelids quite easily as the eyelids are generally the thinnest skin found on the human body and the tissue is highly vascularized. With the root of the eyelid located proximally and the eyelid margin located distally the net arterial flow of blood flows from proximal to distal. So wherever these treatment strips are placed the heating or cooling therapy may easily be carried throughout the eyelid and any structures contained therein e.g. meibomian glands MG lacrimal glands LG gland of Zeis GZ gland of Moll GM gland of Wolfring GW gland of Kraus GK etc.

Moreover because the eyelid is so thin the heating or cooling therapy can be transmitted to the ocular surface and the eye itself described in further detail below . Thus the therapy can impart energy to the conjunctiva goblet cells episcleral vasculature cornea aqueous humor iris ciliary body and possibly the anterior vitreous and lens. Thus any thermal therapy by the treatment strips may also impact and be used to treat ocular surface disorders and anterior segment diseases e.g. conjunctivitis keratitis keratopathy iritis cyclitis glaucoma cataract etc. Also there may be use in the postoperative state like after LASIK PRK or cataract or corneal surgery or other ocular peri ocular intraocular or eyelid surgery as described in further detail below.

As shown in the front view of one variation of such treatment strips may be seen as being adhered temporarily upon the upper eyelid UL and lower eyelid LL over an eye of a patient P when closed for illustrative purposes. The contoured upper strip may be sized for adherence directly upon the skin of the upper eyelid UL such that the strip has a configuration and shape which follows the location of the one or more meibomian glands contained within the underlying skin of the upper eyelid UL. Likewise the contoured lower strip may also have a configuration and shape which follows the location of the one or more meibomian glands contained within the underlying skin of the lower eyelid LL. In other variations the contoured strip may stop at the eyelid crease or cross over it as described in other variations below.

The upper strip may thus have an upper curved or arcuate periphery which is shaped to extend and follow the upper or superior border of the meibomian glands such as along or up to the upper eyelid crease while the straightened periphery of the lower edge may be shaped to extend and follow the lower or inferior border of the meibomian glands such as along the free margin of the upper eyelid UL. The lower strip may similarly have an upper straightened periphery to extend and follow the upper or superior border of the meibomian glands along the free margin of the lower eyelid LL and a lower curved or arcuate periphery to extend and follow the lower or inferior border of the meibomian glands along the lower eyelid LL such as along or up to the lower eyelid crease . The use of the terms lower and upper herein refer to the periphery of the treatment strips when placed upon the patient P human or animal and are used herein for descriptive purposes.

While the treatment strips are both shown adhered upon the respective upper eyelid UL and lower eyelid LL the strips may be used individually for placement upon only the upper eyelid UL or only the lower eyelid LL depending upon the desired treatment. Moreover the lengths of the treatment strips may also be varied to target individual meibomian glands for providing a targeted treatment if desired and as described in further detail herein.

While the treatment strips are shown placed upon the closed eyelids of the patient P the strips are arc shaped or flexible enough to assume the curvature of the patient s eyelid margin and may be long enough to cover some or all of the underlying meibomian glands in the tarsal plate. While the treatment strips may be sized generally they may also be custom made or sized for a specific individual s eyelid dimensions or shaped to optimize adhesion and or comfort and or stability. Generally the treatment strips may have a length anywhere from about 1 mm to 50 mm depending upon the desired treatment length as well as the anatomical considerations of the patient since the typical palpebral fissure length in an adult is about 27 mm to 30 mm. Thus to cover as many as all of the meibomian glands the treatment strips may be sized to have length of e.g. 25 mm to 30 mm or if sized to cover just beyond all the meibomian glands a length of e.g. 30 mm to 50 mm or more if needed to optimize adhesion comfort stability . Moreover one or both treatment strips can have a width ranging anywhere from about 1 mm to 25 mm since the typical eyelid crease in a Caucasian male is about 8 mm to 9 mm above the eyelid margin while in Caucasian females it is about 9 mm to 11 mm above the eyelid margin or more if needed for adhesion comfort and potentially increased efficacy from heating or cooling the inbound blood flow . Customization enables it to fit any particular anatomy race ethnicity etc. Moreover the treatment strips may be manufactured with varying levels of flexibility to accommodate the ergonomics of the eyelid and eyelid blink for optimal comfort and minimal obtrusiveness or movement.

Because of the specific contoured sizes and flexibility of the treatment strips the treatment strips may be placed upon the patient P by the patient himself herself for consumer use or by a healthcare provider to apply therapy to the underlying meibomian glands allowing the patient s eyes to be opened and closed normally as shown in without interference from one or both treatment strips. While the strips may be applied from eyelid margin to eyelid crease they may alternatively flex or accordion and or compress during blinks to prevent impairment of normal blinking and maximize comfort.

Typical treatment patches such as for application of a warm compress are generally sized for placement over the entire eye or eyes such that the patient is unable to open their eyes or blink during a treatment session. Yet because of the strong association between DES and MGD for instance MGD includes the spectrum of MGD meibomitis blepharitis and ocular rosacea natural blinking by an individual is the mechanism by which meibomian gland secretions are normally released onto the eyelid margin and over the tear. In the absence of blinking the oil contained within the meibomian glands remain unexpressed within the glands terminal ducts and fail to contribute to distribution of the oily layer upon the tears.

Accordingly the treatment strips contoured size shape and flexibility allow for treatment to occur while also allowing for the patient to have one or both eyes remain opened such that normal physiologic blinking can proceed during the course of treatment. Rather than relying on an application of any type of external force to express the oil or obstruction from the glands the treatment strips take advantage of the eye s natural mechanism for clearing oil from the meibomian glands via blinking. Hence the treatment strips may be adhered in place for treatment without any further intervention by the patient or healthcare provider such that the treatment strips may apply e.g. heat energy to melt or liquefy any waxy or solid meibomian gland obstructions while the eyes remain unobstructed and are allowed to blink naturally. The treatment strips thus allow for the natural blinking to clear the glands of the heat treated softened obstructions before they have re solidified unlike other treatments which require that the patient keep their eyes closed or obstructed during the course of a treatment and prevent or inhibit the patient from blinking. Delivery of heat may also increase blood flow by promoting vasodilation as increased delivery of blood can affect metabolism temperature of other tissues may have effects on inflammation and can thereby improve tissue function.

Because some patients have obstructions or occlusions in their meibomian glands that may not sufficiently melt loosen or soften without attaining heightened temperatures at the meibomian glands the treatment strips may apply heat or other treatments to the surface of the eyelids for a significant period of time for relatively longer treatment times and at higher treatment temperatures because of the ability of the treatment strips to remain attached to the patient during any given period throughout the day. Patients can assume their daily activities with their eyes open and eyes blinking and with the comfort of a strip based treatment. Moreover patients can affix the treatment strips as many times as needed throughout the day week month etc. until dry eye symptoms subside. This increases the frequency of treatment convenience of treatment and thus efficacy of treatment.

Because of the prolonged treatment times the application of a separate force beyond the application of the strips may not be needed so long as the patient is able to continue blinking during the course of treatment. Moreover the treatment frequency may be varied depending upon the severity of the condition to be treated. One example for potential treatment frequency may include application of one or both strips e.g. up to six times per day for ten minutes or up to an hour or more for each treatment. Moreover because the treatment strips are positioned over the meibomian glands which overlie the ocular surfaces the application of the heating therapy may also indirectly heat the ocular surface as well and may further reduce any chronic ocular surface inflammation chronic conjunctival inflammation or corneal neovascularization.

Aside from heating of the ocular surface heat therapy may also optionally be used to potentially provide for indirect heating through the ocular surface as well for heating of the retina to provide a thermal therapy to limit inflammation and neovascularization which are underlying conditions for diseases such as Wet age related macular degeneration AMD and Diabetic Retinopathy.

While the treatment strips may be used throughout the day to take advantage of the patient s physiologic blinking the treatment strips may also be used while the patient is resting or sleeping or while the patient simply maintains their eyes closed.

The treatment strips are desirably flexible enough to accommodate movement of the upper eyelid UL and or lower eyelid LL which may move as much as about 15 mm or more. Thus the treatment strips may be fabricated from various materials. show front and cross sectional side views respectively in one example of a treatment strip configured to have an adhesive positioned about a periphery of the strip to leave a contact region for direct placement against the skin surface. The contact region may further include a moisturizing layer to interface between the strip and skin to facilitate heat transfer from the strip as well as to provide moisturizing therapy to the skin. Alternatively the treatment strips may be used with any number of moisturizing agents which may be applied to the underlying skin by the patient P or by a practitioner separately from the treatment strips. Moreover the contact region may be formed to have a surface which is smooth porous irregular corrugated etc. to facilitate contact and transfer of the heat from the treatment strip to the skin surface. Alternatively the entire contact region including its periphery may be adhesive to maintain good contact. It may be hinged or curved to allow flexing or accordion like dynamic movement for comfort and better physiologically sound ergonomics. In use the strip may be applied under tension as shown by the tensioned strip in to further reduce any impairment to blinking and once adhered to the skin the strip may be released to allow for its flexion as shown by the released strip also in to facilitate blinking by the patient P.

In this variation the treatment strip may be configured to have a contact layer e.g. fabricated from conductive materials such as metals alloys porous ceramics engineering ceramics woods polymers composites foams polymer foams elastomers etc. which may protect the skin from burns or any other adverse effects. A second heating layer may be positioned above the contact layer or directly in contact against the skin for generating the heat energy and an insulative layer may be positioned atop the heating layer for focusing directing or reflecting the heat towards the underlying skin surface as well as to protect the patient from contact with the heating layer from other parts of the body. The insulative layer may accordingly be fabricated from a variety of insulative materials e.g. foams foam tapes gauze silicone microporous polyethylene films metals alloys reflective materials mirrors etc. Moreover the thickness of the treatment strip may vary e.g. anywhere from about 1 64 to or more depending upon the heating layer mechanism as well as the desired thermal profile and targeted transmission temperature. Additionally and or alternatively the insulative layer may be comprised of a thermochromic material which may change its color when a targeted temperature has been reached by the treatment strip to indicate to the patient that the targeted temperature has been achieved or when the therapy has been completed.

The heating layer may be configured to generate its heat energy e.g. up to a temperature range of about 20 to 55 C. or more or between 40 to 50 C. through any number various mechanisms such as mechanical electrical or chemical mechanisms. In one variation the heating layer may comprise an air activated warmer that can increase to an elevated treatment temperature for a period of time lasting e.g. from 5 minutes up to 24 hours or even longer. An example can include air activated layer incorporating e.g. iron. Other examples may incorporate a heating layer containing e.g. cellulose iron powder water activated carbon to speed up reaction vermiculite water reservoir and salt catalyst saw dust sodium chloride and water etc. to generate heat from an exothermic oxidation of iron when exposed to air. Other variations may comprise a heating layer which incorporates light based activation visible or UV light powered or use of a supersaturated solution crystallization type to initiate and or maintain an exothermic reaction.

Optionally aside from use of a thermochromic material to determine when the treatment strip has reached a particular temperature a separate temperature sensor e.g. thermocouples or thermistor devices may be incorporated onto the treatment strip as shown in attached either to the top of the strip or to the bottom of the strip. The treatment strip may also incorporate an optional controller and or display having a processor which may be programmable and which may incorporate a separate on off feature as shown in . The temperature sensor may be in communication with the controller which may be programmed to regulate the temperature of the heating layer and or a length of time for a particular treatment. The controller may accordingly be programmable by a physician or caregiver or directly by the patient. Alternatively the controller may be configured to be inaccessible by the patient but may merely provide temperature and or time indications for display to the patient. In the event that the controller is programmable the controller may be programmed e.g. to set a length of a heating period set treatment times set predetermined temperature ranges control a heating temperature profile such as gradually increasing the heating temperature or decreasing temperature over a predetermined period of time etc.

In another variation the heating layer may generate heat through exothermic crystallization of supersaturated solutions typically sodium acetate which are usually reusable. The treatment strips may be recharged by heating them e.g. by boiling and allowing them to cool. Heating of these treatment strips may triggered by snapping a small metal device buried in the treatment strips which generates nucleation centers that initiate crystallization. Heat is required to dissolve the salt in its own water of crystallization and it is this heat that is released when crystallization is initiated.

In yet another variation the heating layer may comprise a battery operated warmer which utilizes electrically resistive heating elements that are used to convert electrical energy in the battery to thermal energy. The power supply may be internal or external to the treatment strips and the treatment strips may charged e.g. by direct electrical contact induction etc.

Other mechanisms which may be incorporated into the heating layer may comprise chemically actuated reactions such those used by sodium acetate heating pads. For instance a single use chemical reaction utilizing the catalyzed rusting of iron or dissolving calcium chloride may be use where the reagents are maintained in separate compartments within the treatment strips. When the patient squeezes the treatment strips the compartments may break and the reagents mixed to produce heat. Examples may include use of a supersaturated solution of sodium acetate NaCHCOO in water where crystallization may be triggered by flexing a small flat disc of notched ferrous metal embedded in the liquid which act as nucleation sites for the crystallization of the sodium acetate into the hydrated salt sodium acetate trihydrate . Because the liquid is supersaturated this makes the solution crystallize suddenly which releases the energy of the crystal lattice.

Yet another example of use in the heating layer may include the use of a hot gel containing a supersaturated solution of a salt. Heat may be generated when the crystallization of the given salt occurs exothermically. Such heating layer may be reused by forcing the salt back into solution within the heating layer .

Yet other examples for incorporation into the heating layer may also include the use of high specific heat capacity materials which may be heated e.g. by placement in a microwave prior to use and then allowed to release the heat over a specified period of time.

Although the application of beat energy from the treatment strips is described other variations may alternatively include the application of using the treatment strips for cooling of the underlying skin. Rather than using the heating layer in an exothermic reaction the layer may be configured to utilize an endothermic reaction instead to provide for cooling of the skin at temperatures ranging e.g. from about 0 C. to 37 C. or more particularly from about 25 C. to 35 C. One example may include having the layer to incorporate water and ammonium nitrate or ammonium chloride. Mixture of the water and the ammonium may reduce the temperature of layer . Another variation may include the use of cooling gel made by adding hydroxyethyl cellulose or vinyl coated silica gel which may be cooled or frozen prior to use. Alternatively cooling may be achieved by application of a cooling element such as a Peltier junction. Cooling rather than heating may be applied for conditions such as reducing inflammation alleviating allergies or tired eyes etc. particularly as the patient rests or sleeps. One example includes treatment for allergic conjunctivitis where application of the cooling treatment may provide relief from any burning or itching sensations by serving as a vasoconstrictor to limit blood flow reduce blood vessel leakage and permeability thereby reducing acute swelling and inflammation. Yet another example includes reducing inflammation and fibrosis of a conjunctival bleb resulting from a trabeculectomy or mitigating inflammation generally following any ophthalmic surgical procedure.

Given the multitude of various mechanisms for incorporating a heating layer the treatment strips may be configured to be single use disposable strips multiple use disposable re usable strips selectively actuatable etc.

Aside from the application of heat energy from the treatment strips the strips may also include a layer for the diffusion or release of one or more pharmaceutical biological or chemical agents either alone or in combination with the heat treatment. For instance the pharmaceutical biological or chemical agents may be incorporated into the either the contact layer insulative layer or in a separate layer entirely for transdermal delivery to the meibomian glands or to the areas surrounding the meibomian glands for additional and or alternative treatments. For instance examples of some of the various pharmacological agents which may be incorporated into the treatment strips for use with or without the heat treatment may include but are not limited to anti inflammatory compounds antibiotics topical tetracycline oral tetracycline topical corticosteroids oral corticosteroids topical androgens metronidazole steroid antagonists topical androgen analogues TGF omega 3 or omega 6 compounds vasoconstrictors such as naphazoline oxymetazoline phenylephrine and tetrahydrozoline enzymes that promote lipid production agents that stimulate production of enzymes that promote lipid production agents that act as a secretagogue to enhance meibomian gland secretion agents that replace or promote production of any tear component cholinergic muscarinic or nicotinic agonists may be used cosmeceuticals such as retinol or hyaluronic acid HA for wrinkled puffy or sagging skin in the cosmetics space retinoic acid for acne or agents that degrade or break down lipids like lipases etc.

Other agents may include e.g. alpha melanocyte stimulating hormone or adrenocorticotropic hormone or androgens like testosterone to increase tear production agents which stimulate the underlying muscles like the orbicularis oculi or muscle of Riolan to stimulate blinking increase frequency of blinking or maintain longer closure after a blink by inhibiting the levator palpebrae muscle to force a blink or eyelid closure or otherwise mechanically compress the meibomian glands or glands of Zeis or other goblet cells or accessory lacrimal glands.

Additionally and or alternatively other agents for incorporation into the treatment strips may further include e.g. neurotransmitters noxious or irritating chemicals or vapors hormones oils lipids polar lipids or fatty acids. Use of neurotransmitters may allow for stimulation to occur via second messenger pathways like activation of the Calcium Protein Kinase C pathways G Protein activation other calcium related pathways calcium calmodulin dependent protein kinases the cyclic adenosine monophosphate dependent pathways adenylyl cyclase pathways inhibition of cAMP dependent phosphodiesterases.

In the event that the pharmacological or chemical agent is released during the heat treatment the heat may help to improve penetration of any drugs into the underlying skin.

Yet another variation may incorporate a treatment strip which applies a heat rub that can be applied via the treatment strips onto the upper UL and or lower eyelids LL for the treatment of the meibomian glands or which applies a compound which attracts light and heats up accordingly. Each of these variations may allow for the treatment strips to be applied and used while allowing for natural blinking to occur to facilitate the clearing of the ducts of melted oil blockages within the meibomian glands and to facilitate the spreading of the oil onto the tears.

While the treatment strips may incorporate various layers into the strips to effect various different treatments the strips may also be varied in size shape contour etc. depending upon the desired treatment areas so long as the treatment strips are contoured or shaped to follow the location of at least one meibomian gland. An example of another configuration for the treatment strips is shown in the front view of which illustrates a contoured thinned strip sized and shaped for placement along the upper eyelid UL. This treatment strip may have a contoured lower edge as well as a contoured upper edge which follow the positioning of the underlying meibomian glands. Moreover although the strips are shown placed upon the upper eyelids UL of both eyes of the patient P a single strip may be used upon a single eyelid to selectively treat the particular meibomian glands in this and other examples shown herein. Additionally one or both upper eyelids UL may be treated alone or in combination with one or both lower eyelids LL depending upon the desired treatment in this and other examples shown herein.

Another variation is shown in the front view of which shows a contoured thickened strip having a contoured lower edge and contoured upper edge for placement upon the meibomian glands as well as the surrounding tissue and glands. In yet other variations rather than utilizing two separate treatment strips a singular strip may also be used which extends over the bridge of the patient s nose. Additionally the thickened strip may cover the portions of skin farther proximally away from the eyelid margin to facilitate treatment. Because arterial blood supply to the eyelids proceed from proximal to distal of the eyelid margins the treatment strip may heat or cool the blood supply as it continues to flow towards the eyelid margins. This early heating or cooling may provide a therapeutic effect for increased comfort to the patient less impact on eyelid function such as blinking and increased safety of application and distance from the ocular surface as well as potentially increased efficacy allowing for more total heating or cooling therapy.

In the variation of an example of contoured thinned strip is shown applied along the lower eyelid LL. As illustrated the contoured upper edge and contoured lower edge may be contoured to follow over the underlying meibomian glands. As described above the treatment strips may be applied singularly over one or both eyes or they may be applied in combination with treatment strips applied over one or both eyes of the upper eyelids. Moreover any of the treatment strips shown herein may be used in any number of combinations with one another.

Aside from variations in width of the treatment strips any of the treatment strips may be varied in length as well to selectively target portions of the meibomian glands or particularly selected meibomian glands. For example shows one variation where the shortened contoured strip having a first shortened length may be applied upon the lower eyelid LL and or upon the upper eyelid UL . A second contoured strip having a second length which is longer than the shortened contoured strip may also be seen for comparison. similarly shows a shortened and straightened strip applied upon the lower eyelid LL and a second straightened strip having a relatively longer length applied upon the second lower eyelid LL. The straightened strips may incorporate rounded ends and may be varied in length depending upon the desired treatment area. They could also be rounded or circular to cover one or more styes.

In yet another variation shows an example where both an upper contoured strip and a lower contoured strip may be applied respectively along the upper eyelid UL and lower eyelid LL. As discussed previously the contoured strips are shaped and applied to follow the underlying meibomian glands while enabling the patient P to blink normally. shows a similarly applied upper contoured strip and lower contoured strip where the strips may be varied in color to more closely match a skin tone or shade of the patient P. Because the treatment strips may be used throughout the day for any given period of time the strips may be made in various colors or tones to either more closely match the skin tone or shade of the patient P.

In yet another variation shows another example where the treatment strips may be varied in length to treat specific regions along the upper UL or lower eyelids LL. In this example a first upper strip having a first length may be applied adjacent to a second upper strip having a second longer length. Optionally a third upper strip and or fourth upper strip having lengths which are relatively shorter may also be applied as well over selected meibomian glands. A lower strip having enlarged distal ends are also shown for placement along the lower eyelid LL. The distal ends may be shaped to facilitate the placement and or removal of the strip from the skin or for better adhesion . Yet another example is shown in which illustrates several shortened treatment strips e.g. first upper strip and second upper strip placed selectively along the upper eyelid UL along with e.g. first lower strip and second lower strip placed selectively along the lower eyelid LL. Each of the strips may be varied in length as well as size depending upon the treatment area.

With the lengths of the treatment strips being variable multiple strips may be applied adjacent to one another or to overlap horizontally and or vertically along the eyelids. Moreover one or more of the treatment strips may be made as a single unit or as a series of panels either horizontally or vertically oriented which may be optionally connected by a backing that is flexible. As shown in the variation of each of the targeted strips may have a length of e.g. about 1 mm to cover as few as a single meibomian gland. One or more of the targeted strips may be applied along the upper eyelid UL and or lower eyelid LL. Additionally one or more of the targeted strips may further comprise a connecting member which functions as a backing to couple each of the individual targeted strips to one another. The individual strips may be applied selectively at particularly problematic meibomian glands either along the upper eyelid UL and or lower eyelid LL. For example illustrates the individual targeted strips placed along just the lower eyelid LL.

While the treatment strips may be applied to one or more of the meibomian glands variations of the strip may also be used to treat other glands such as the sebaceous glands e.g. for acne treatment. Treatment strips used to treat acne may utilize different pharmacological treatments. Other glands in the underlying eyelids and conjunctiva CN for treatment may also include treatment of e.g. the glands of Zeis GZ goblet cells accessory sebaceous glands accessory goblet cells such as the Henle and Manz glands accessory lacrimal glands of Wolfring GW or Krause GK or either one or both lobes of the main lacrimal glands such as the palpebral portion or the orbital portion.

Moreover the treatment strips may be used to potentially treat eye disorders beyond meibomian gland dysfunction including e.g. blepharitis sjogren s syndrome dacryoadenitis conjunctivitis allergic conjunctivitis keratoconjunctivitis sicca keratitis dacryocystitis iritis keratitis retinitis sclerokeratitis uveitis contact lens related eye problems post blepharoplasty or eyelid or eye surgical procedures e.g. cataract surgery LASIK PRK etc. absent or dysfunctional blinks disorders conjunctivitis blepharospasm exposure keratopathy lagophthalmos lid myokymia infections styes chalazion hordeolum glaucoma blebs trauma etc.

Yet another example as mentioned above may include use of the treatment strips for treating disorders of the lacrimal gland LG and or palpebral lacrimal gland PL which are located above the eye as shown in . Variously sized treatment strips such as lacrimal gland strips shown in which is sized to have a curved upper periphery may be sized for placement directly over the skin surface above where the lacrimal glands LG are located. Other variations are shown in which illustrates lacrimal gland strips which are relatively thinner in width as well as in which illustrates lacrimal gland strips which have curved peripheries ending in tapered ends. The treatment strips may deliver heat e.g. to stimulate the lacrimal gland LG increase gland metabolism activity lacrimation etc. Alternatively the treatment strips may deliver cooling therapy to reduce inflammation which impairs gland function.

The lacrimal glands LG and or palpebral lacrimal gland PL may be treated alone or in combination with the treatment strips contoured for treatment of the meibomian glands. One variation is shown in which illustrates contoured strips which are enlarged in width to cover both the lacrimal glands LG as well as the meibomian glands along the upper eyelid UL. Contoured treatment strips are also shown placed along the lower eyelids LL for treatment of the meibomian glands as well.

The lacrimal gland strip may be used in combination with any of the treatment strips shown herein. Another example is illustrated in which shows lacrimal gland strip used in combination with the individual strips while shows yet another example where lacrimal gland strip may be used in combination with not only the individual strips but also the strips located along respective lower eyelid LL and upper eyelid UL.

While the treatment strips may be applied over the meibomian glands to apply the heat energy the treatment does not require the application of any external force applied by the strip or any other external device but may utilize the natural blinking of the patient to facilitate treatment as described above. However in additional variations the treatment strips may be configured to apply both the heat treatment as well as an external force. Any number of mechanisms may be utilized to apply a pinching or biasing force to provide for compression of the underlying skin and of the meibomian glands during application of the heat therapy. One example is shown in the front view of which illustrates a biased treatment strip which may be comprised of a strip as previously described having one or more biasing mechanisms positioned along the strip . The one or more biasing mechanisms may be positioned along either the upper strip or lower strip or both as shown.

In this example the biasing mechanism may locally squeeze or compress the underlying skin to apply a pressure to the meibomian glands MG to facilitate the clearing of any obstructions particularly if applied simultaneously with the heat treatment. An example of a biasing mechanism is illustrated in the perspective view of which shows how the biasing mechanism may generally comprise portions of the strip or separate members biased to form corresponding channels which are configured to flex in an open or closed configuration. When the strip is initially placed upon the skin the ends of the strip may be pulled to open the channels which may then be placed upon the skin surface. As the strip and biasing mechanisms relax the underlying skin and meibomian glands MG may be compressed or pinched by the compression forces induced into the biasing mechanism .

Aside from a compression force the strip may be formed with alternative components such as a mechanical component to impart vibrational energy to facilitate the expression of the meibomian glands and promote oil secretion. An example is illustrated in which shows another variation of the contoured strip A B having one or more vibrating elements e.g. piezoelectric transducers electromagnetic actuators eccentrically coupled rotating elements etc. incorporated along the strips A B. The one or more vibrating elements may be electrically coupled to a power supply and or processor also contained along the strips A B. Moreover the vibrational energy may be imparted separately from heat treatment or in combination with the heat therapy. The power supply may include a micro battery which can be rechargeable to deliver microcurrents of energy.

Aside from the application of mechanical pressure or vibrational energy other forms of energy may also be delivered by one or more of the treatment strips. Another variation is illustrated in which shows an upper contoured strip A having a conductive element such as a wire integrated along the entire length or a partial length of the contoured strip A. The conductive element may be configured in an alternating pattern or it may be simply aligned along the length of the strip as shown by conductive element or electrically resistive along the lower contoured strip B. Each of the conductive elements may be in electrical communication with a respective power supply and or processor . The conductive elements may be selectively actuated to apply either heat energy or they may configured to apply radio frequency RF energy to the underlying skin and meibomian glands. With respect to the application of electrical energy one form of electrical energy applicable by the treatment strips may include use of a transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation feature e.g. to deliver neural stimulation to increase tear production. The conductive elements may generate the thermal energy via various power sources e.g. battery solar cell kinetic movement RF etc.

In yet another variation one or both treatment strips A B may be configured to incorporate an indicator e.g. LED light alarm vibration element etc. electrically coupled to a power supply and or processor to alert the patient when a prescribed treatment has been completed. This feature and any of the other features may be combined with any of the other variations of the treatment strips described herein as practicable.

In other variations the number of connecting cables may range anywhere from 1 4 connector cables rather than utilizing a single cable . For instance one cable may be used to provide power and communication to a few or all four heating elements in each of the assemblies . Alternatively four connecting cables may provide power and communication to each of the heating elements in assemblies . Yet in other alternatives two connecting cables may provide power and communication to each of the assemblies .

In other additional variations any of the treatment strips described may be used in combination with the controller described herein as practicable. Yet in a further variation oval or circular shaped heating elements may covers the eye and both eyelids where an outer border of the heating elements or strips may follow the path of the upper and lower meibomian glands. In this case one treatment strip may cover both eyelids and both sets of meibomian glands and the user may use a total of two rather than four round circular or oval shaped treatment strips to cover both eyes. Such a variation may be used e.g. for a night time therapy in bed prior to or during sleep when the eyes need not necessarily be open.

The assemblies may generally comprise strips as previously described which follow the location of the meibomian glands while still allowing patients to blink easily and proceed in comfort with daily activity. An example of such heaters which may be configured for use with the treatment system may include thin flexible heaters which are commercially available through companies such as Minco Products Inc. Minneapolis Minn. or can be custom designed and manufactured independently or through third party manufacturing. Each individual treatment strip e.g. treatment strips A B may each be sized for a single eyelid e.g. 28 mm 7 mm 0.15 mm having a bottom chord length of e.g. 28 mm with a radius of curvature of e.g. 75 mm and having a general configuration of an arcuate rectangle having blunted corners where the nasal or temporal edges may coincide with the radii of the arc. However these size limitations are intended to be exemplary and not limiting since the treatment strips A B may be sized to be smaller or larger to accommodate different eye anatomies.

Moreover the individual treatment strips A B may be formed as thin flexible transparent polymers containing the heating elements while the contact surface of the strips may be affixed to the respective eyelids with e.g. a disposable adhesive. Other variations may utilize opaque or colored strips e.g. skin tone colors. Moreover one or more temperature sensors may also be integrated into the treatment strips where the heating elements and sensors may be routed through the connecting cable to a power source and or controller and or portable electronic device as shown.

Controller may generally comprise a hardware software platform or unit which may be programmed for controlling the therapy treatments. Accordingly the controller may include a processor as well as a power supply such as a battery rechargeable or disposable for providing power to the assemblies . The power supply within controller may be optionally rechargeable separate from the portable electronic device or the power supply may draw power for the assemblies and processor directly from the portable electronic device as well.

In the case where the controller is programmed to provide the therapy treatment protocols one or several controls for controlling the treatments may be built directly into controller . The portable electronic device may interface with the controller to display in one variation part of the controls on a screen e.g. touchscreen of the electronic device such as controls for starting and or stopping a treatment. Alternatively all of the controls may reside on the controller while a display on the electronic device may serve primarily to show or track various results or treatment parameters.

In yet another alternative the all of the controls may reside on the display of the electronic device for controlling the various treatment options and parameters rather than on the controller . In this variation the electronic device in this example a smartphone may also provide the power to the treatment strip assemblies and may also control the various treatment temperatures and times as well as provide temperature feedback or other physiological parameters which may be measured. In this case the treatment strips and connecting cable may be plugged directly into the mobile or portable consumer electronic device . For instance the electronic device may be used to display treatment parameters and controls such as an icon or button for initiating therapy. In one example therapy may be initiated by the user through electronic device to heat one or more of the strips of one or both of the treatment strip assemblies . In any of the variations the electronic device particularly in the case of a smartphone or tablet may have an optional program or application downloaded onto the device which facilitates the various control and or display parameters on the electronic device depending upon how the electronic device is used with the controller and assemblies .

Additionally the electronic device may also provide a diagnostic function to allow the user to test for dry eye and or to determine how treatment is progressing either before during or after treatment. Accordingly the electronic device or controller may leverage e.g. an integrated camera and or flash light source for purposes of imaging the user s ocular tear film or ocular surface and evaluating commonly used tear assessment criteria such as total tear film layer thickness and or tear film mucin layer thickness and or tear film lipid layer thickness and or tear film aqueous layer thickness or any combination thereof. In addition to imaging of the user s tear film and or ocular surface conditions the mobile application may include other common methods for diagnosing dry eye such as user questionnaires related to the user patient s symptoms discomfort and or improvement or worsening of symptoms that can be completed using the electronic device s touch screen interface results stored on the electronic device or web application or manufacturer s servers tracked over time for trend evaluation and possibly shared with the user s physician.

Moreover in any of the variations the controller and or electronic device may be programmed or initiated to heat up the assemblies to e.g. 42.5 C. 1 to 2 C. Treatment time may be set to e.g. 15 to 30 minutes and the controller and or electronic device may further be programmed to shut down when the allotted treatment time has passed or if the measured temperature rises above a predetermined level e.g. 45 C. Additionally the controller and or electronic device may also be programmed or set to indicate various treatment parameters e.g. the initiation of treatment warming of the heating elements completion of treatment errors battery life etc. through any number of visual auditory or haptic indicators.

Additionally the controller and or electronic device may be used to store and or transmit various data such as historical treatment data usage time total treatment time temperature data etc. Furthermore the controller and or electronic device may communicate wirelessly with a remote server or additional controller allowing the controller and or electronic device to also be programmed remotely e.g. by a physician or other party. In yet other variations audio and or visual information e.g. advertisements or other media may also be displayed upon the controller and or electronic device which may be received from remote servers or various other data may be transmitted to and or from the controller and or electronic device as well.

In yet other variations although controller is illustrated as being coupled to assemblies via a wired connecting cable other variations may have controller wirelessly connected with assemblies . Such a connection may be through any number of wireless protocols such as Bluetooth RF etc.

This precision temperature control mobile heating therapy system may be used for heating other parts of the body as well where the system remains nearly the same but the heating element dimensions may be varied and power requirements may also be changed depending on the total surface area being treated and temperature goals.

With the incorporation of a processor into the treatment strips treatment times or other parameters such as temperature of the strips may be programmed and optionally shut on or off selectively by the patient or automatically. Moreover other parameters such as the frequency of the heat delivery or other stimulation may also be programmed by the processor to provide further flexibility in treatment.

The applications of the devices and methods discussed above are not limited to the treatment of dry eye syndrome but may include any number of further treatment applications. Moreover such devices and methods may be applied to other treatment sites within the body where acute or chronic inflammation causes a disease or condition. The treatment strips can be accordingly custom designed to follow the path of the underlying physiology e.g. custom designed and contoured cooling or heating treatment strips to treat the sinuses and acute or chronic sinusitis respectively rhinitis and allergic rhinitis joint aches and inflammation arthritis muscle aches back pain headaches wounds sports injuries etc. Modification of the above described assemblies and methods for carrying out the invention combinations between different variations as practicable and variations of aspects of the invention that are obvious to those of skill in the art are intended to be within the scope of the claims.

