---

title: Systems and methods for enabling additional devices to check in to bluetooth low energy (BLE) beacons
abstract: Systems and methods are provided for checking many users in to a location using a Bluetooth® low energy (BLE) beacon. The provided systems and methods may allow a BLE beacon to facilitate a check in with a remote server that processes check ins and then disconnect from the device used to check in. The device may be assigned a unique identifier that may be broadcast from the device during the check in so that the BLE beacon can quickly scan for the identifier and connect with the device based on the identifier to provide content and other information to the device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09571957&OS=09571957&RS=09571957
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09571957
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160805
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 248 263 filed on Apr. 8 2014 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety and pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 e this application claims priority to the filing date of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 874 587 filed on Sep. 6 2013 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments disclosed herein are related to systems and methods for enabling additional devices to check in using a Bluetooth low energy BLE beacon.

Computer systems and networks have facilitated the tasks of buying selling and transferring goods. For example global computer networks such as the Internet have allowed purchasers to relatively quickly and efficiently seek and purchase goods online. Similarly global computer networks provide an efficient and cost effective medium for sellers to advertise offer provide and sell their goods. Electronic commerce companies provide buyers and sellers with online services and the infrastructure to accept orders of goods from remote purchasers to perform the financial transactions necessary to confirm and complete the sale of goods to ship or distribute the goods to remote purchasers and to perform other related logistics. Technology advances have also allowed for a wider variety of devices and transaction types in the retail and other marketplaces.

One example of a relatively new development within the realm of electronic commerce is the ability to allow a consumer to pay for a good or service at a point of sale through the use of his or her smart phone or other personal mobile device. A user merely needs to have an appropriate payment application or app on his or her device whereupon the user can present his or her phone or other similar device at an appropriate time and location at a retail or other establishment. The retailer or other seller or service provider can then check in the given user through some process of reading his or her smart phone or other similar device after which the seller or service provider can accept payment or credit through some form of communication with the checked in or acknowledged device. This check in ability to accept payment or credit without the use of cash checks credit cards or other traditional payment means can be particularly helpful in many settings.

Unfortunately such setups are not without their own drawbacks and inconvenient features. In many instances the current check in process can be time consuming. For example current check in procedures often require the customer to take out his or her phone or other device at a point of sale in order to make a payment or provide a credit. This often involves the device searching for the appropriate wireless connection at the store searching for the store among many possible choices on the device and or manual user input or selection on his or her personal mobile device all of which can take some inconvenient amount of time. In addition some check ins may fail even if automated due to the limits on the number of devices or users that can be checked in at one time. Even small amounts of time that are less than a minute can be frustrating where other consumers are waiting in line behind the user at a register or other point of sale.

In the following description specific details are set forth describing certain embodiments. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the disclosed embodiments may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. The specific embodiments presented are meant to be illustrative but not limiting. One skilled in the art may realize other material that although not specifically described herein is within the scope and spirit of this disclosure.

Consistent with some embodiments there is provided a system. The system includes one or more wireless transceivers configured to send a device identifier to a user device in communication with the one or more wireless transceivers when the user device completes a check in establish communications with the user device based on the device identifier when content for the user device is received from a remote server and send content to the user device wherein the one or more wireless transceivers are further configured to communicate with the user device using a Bluetooth low energy BLE communications protocol. The system also includes a network interface component coupled to the one or more wireless transceivers and in communication with the remote server over a network the network interface component configured to receive the device identifier and the content from the remote server. The system also includes one or more processors configured to determine when the device identifier is present and determine when the content is received from remote server and a memory.

Consistent with some embodiments there is also provided a method. The method includes steps of communicating with a beacon using Bluetooth low energy communications protocol to check in to a location receiving a device identifier and instructions to broadcast the device identifier from the beacon broadcasting the device identifier wherein communicating with the beacon stops after receiving the device identifier re establishing communications with the beacon in response to a request from the beacon and receiving content from the beacon wherein the re established communications with the beacon stop after receiving the beacon. The method may be embodied in computer readable media.

Consistent with some embodiments there is further provided a method. The method includes steps of checking a user into a location assigning to the user a device identifier to be broadcast by a device associated with the user for an expiration time using a Bluetooth low energy BLE communications protocol sending content to the user based on the device identifier and checking the user out of the location when the device identifier is no longer broadcast at the location or the expiration time associated has passed. The method may be embodied in computer readable media.

Consequently embodiments described herein may allow a BLE beacon to facilitate a check in with one user device and disconnect from the user device so that the channels and resources needed to facilitate the check in are freed up for other user devices. The embodiments described herein may then allow the BLE beacon to quickly connect a user device using a unique identifier assigned to the user device to deliver content.

Network in one embodiment may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet and or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of communication networks. In another example the network may comprise a wireless telecommunications network e.g. cellular phone network adapted to communicate with other communication networks such as the Internet.

Client computing device in one embodiment may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example client computing device may be implemented as a wireless telephone e.g. smart phone tablet personal digital assistant PDA notebook computer personal computer a connected set top box STB such as provided by cable or satellite content providers or a video game system console a head mounted display HIVID or other wearable computing device including a wearable computing device having an eyeglass projection screen and or various other generally known types of computing devices.

As shown in system may include one or more beacons . In some embodiments beacons may be installed at a merchant location such as a store restaurant and the like and other locations where user may be able to check in and receive additional content offers features or payment options. In some embodiments beacons may be Bluetooth Low Energy BLE beacons. BLE is a technology that transmits information at a frequency of about 2.4 GHz about 2042 2480 MHz over forty 40 2 MHz wide channels and has a range of about 50 meter or about 160 feet. Information transmitted according to the BLE protocol may be transmitted at a rate of about 1 Mbit s with an application throughput of about 0.27 Mbit s. In some embodiments BLE communications may be secured using 128 bit Advanced Encryption Standard AES encryption with counter mode with a cipher block chaining message authentication code CBC MAC and user defined security. Further in some embodiments BLE communications may utilize adaptive frequency hopping lazy acknowledgement a 24 bit cyclic redundancy check CRC and 32 bit message integrity check for robustness. Moreover in some embodiments BLE capable devices may consume a fraction of the power of standard Bluetooth devices due to the protocol allowing low duty cycles and being designed for applications that may not require continuous data transfer. Beacons may transmit one or more sequences of information such that when a device such as client computing device capable of receiving information from beacons comes within the range of a beacon the device may receive a transmission from a beacon that may include information data metadata and the like that may be displayed by client computing device or used by client computing device to initiate communications with beacon . In some embodiments beacon may be in communication with remote server over network through wireless or wired connection. In particular beacon may be in communication with remote server over network . Beacon may also transmit information to client computing device using other wireless communication protocols such as Bluetooth Near Field Communications NFC Radio Frequency Identification RFID and the like.

Client computing device may include any appropriate combination of hardware and or software having one or more processors and capable of reading instructions stored on a tangible non transitory machine readable medium for execution by the one or more processors. Consistent with some embodiments client computing device includes a machine readable medium such as a memory not shown that includes instructions for execution by one or more processors not shown for causing client computing device to perform specific tasks. In some embodiments the instructions may be executed by the one or more processors in response to interaction by user . For example such instructions may include browser application such as a mobile browser application which may be used to provide a user interface to permit user to browse information available over network including information hosted by remote server . For example browser application may be implemented as a web browser to view information available over network . Browser application may include a graphical user interface GUI that is configured to allow user to interface and communicate with remote server or other servers managed by content providers or merchants via network . For example user may be able to access websites to find and purchase items as well as access user account information or web content.

Client computing device may also include a check in application that may allow user to check in to a location using a check in platform or service such as may be provided by PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. Foursquare of New York N.Y. Facebook Inc. of Menlo Park Calif. or Google of Google Inc. of Mountain View Calif. Yelp Inc. of San Francisco Calif. or by a merchant or location and implemented by remote server . In some embodiments check in application may include multiple application programming interfaces APIs for checking in to one or more of the check in platforms or services. In some embodiments checking in to a location while visiting a location such as a merchant physical storefront may provide user with exclusive deals offers or may allow user to purchase and pay for items.

Client computing device may also include a payment application that may be used by user using client computing device to make a payment. In some embodiments payment application may be configured to make a payment using remote server as a payment processor. In some embodiments functionalities provided by check in application and payment application may actually be provided by a single application. Client computing device may include other applications as may be desired in one or more embodiments to provide additional features available to user including accessing a user account with remote server . For example applications may include interfaces and communication protocols that allow the user to receive and transmit information through network and to remote server and other online sites. Applications may also include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate APIs over network or various other types of generally known programs and or applications. Applications may include mobile applications downloaded and resident on client computing device that enables user to access content through the applications.

Remote server according to some embodiments may be maintained by an online payment provider such as PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. which may provide processing for online financial and information transactions on behalf of user . Remote server according to some embodiments may also be maintained by a service that processes check ins so that a proprietor of a location such as a merchant or others know that user is at the location or is able to provide user with the ability to pay for goods using client computing device receive offers receive loyalty points and the like. Remote server may also be capable of providing access to a merchant s goods and services collectively referred to as items that are for purchase and may provide a payment service processing for the purchased items. Remote server may include at least check in application which may be configured to interact with client computing device and beacon to check user in to a location. In some embodiments checking client computing device in to a location may allow user and client computing device to access features specials offers and the like offered by the location. In some embodiments these features specials offers and the like may be provided and processed by remote server on behalf of the location. In some embodiments check ins may be automatic check ins made through the communication of client computing device and beacon such as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 938 860 filed on Jul. 10 2013 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 021 045 filed on Sep. 9 2013 the entire contents of both of these applications which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Remote server may also include a payment application that may facilitate processing payments for user to merchants for example. In some embodiments payment application may be configured to interface with payment application to receive payment details user information merchant information and additional information for processing a payment on behalf of user . Payment application may also be capable of interfacing with check in application such that when a check in is processed a payment may be authorized for the location in which user is checking in to. In some embodiments functionalities provided by check in application and payment application may actually be provided by a single application. Remote server may also include an account database that includes account information for users having an account on remote server such as user . In some embodiments payment application may process payments based on information in account information of account database . Remote server may include other applications and may also be in communication with one or more external databases that may provide additional information that may be used by remote server . In some embodiments databases may be databases maintained by third parties and may include third party account information of user .

As used herein user may have an account with remote server such that account information includes information about user . When user checks in with remote server or performs other authentication with remote server client computing device may be associated with user such that remote server recognizes client computing device as being associated with user . In some embodiments remote server may send a cookie or other object to client computing device that provides an indication of the association between user and client computing device .

Although discussion has been made of applications and applications on client computing device and remote server the applications may also be in some embodiments modules. Module as used herein may refer to a software module that performs a function when executed by one or more processors or Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC or other circuit having memory and at least one processor for executing instructions to perform a function such as the functions described as being performed by the applications.

Consistent with some embodiments computing system includes a system bus for interconnecting various components within computing system and communicating information between the various components. Such components include a processing component which may be one or more processors micro controllers graphics processing units GPUs or digital signal processors DSPs and a memory component which may correspond to a random access memory RAM an internal memory component a read only memory ROM or an external or static optical magnetic or solid state memory. Consistent with some embodiments computing system further includes a display component for displaying information to a user of computing system . Display component may be a liquid crystal display LCD screen an organic light emitting diode OLED screen including active matrix AMOLED screens an LED screen a plasma display or a cathode ray tube CRT display. Computing system may also include an input component allowing for a user of computing system such as consumer to input information to computing system . Such information could include payment information such as an amount required to complete a transaction account information authentication information such as a credential or identification information. An input component may include for example a keyboard or key pad whether physical or virtual. Computing system may further include a navigation control component configured to allow a user to navigate along display component . Consistent with some embodiments navigation control component may be a mouse a trackball or other such device. Moreover if device includes a touch screen display component input component and navigation control may be a single integrated component such as a capacitive sensor based touch screen.

Computing system may further include a location component for determining a location of computing system . In some embodiments location component may correspond to a GPS transceiver that is in communication with one or more GPS satellites. In other embodiments location component may be configured to determine a location of computing system by using an internet protocol IP address lookup or by triangulating a position based on nearby telecommunications towers or wireless access points WAPs . Location component may be further configured to store a user defined location in memory component that can be transmitted to a third party for the purpose of identifying a location of computing system . Computing system may also include sensor components . Sensor components provide sensor functionality and may correspond to sensors built into client computing device or sensor peripherals coupled to client computing device . Sensor components may include any sensory device that captures information related to user and or client computing device that may be associated with any actions that user performs using client computing device . Sensor components may include camera and imaging components accelerometers biometric readers GPS devices motion capture devices and other devices that are capable of providing information about client computing device or user or an environment therearound. Computing system may also include one or more wireless transceivers that may each include an antenna that is separable or integral and is capable of transmitting and receiving information according to one or more wireless network protocols such as Wi Fi 3G 4G HSDPA LTE RF NFC IEEE 802.11a b g n ac or ad Bluetooth BLE WiMAX ZigBee etc.

Computing system may perform specific operations by processing component executing one or more sequences of instructions contained memory component . In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the present disclosure. Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processing component for execution including memory component . Consistent with some embodiments the computer readable medium is tangible and non transitory. In various implementations non volatile media include optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise system bus . Some common forms of computer readable media include for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computing system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computing systems coupled by a communication link to network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another. Computing system may transmit and receive messages data and one or more data packets information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through communication link and network interface component and wireless transceiver . Received program code may be executed by processing component as received and or stored in memory component .

Beacon also includes a system bus for interconnecting various components within beacon and communicating information between the various components. Such components include a processing component which may be one or more processors micro controllers graphics processing units GPUs or digital signal processors DSPs a memory component firmware and one or more wireless transceivers that may each include an antenna that is separable or integral and is capable of transmitting and receiving information according to one or more wireless network protocols such as Wi Fi 3G 4G HSDPA LTE RF NFC IEEE 802.11a b g n ac or ad Bluetooth BLE WiMAX ZigBee etc. Beacon may also include a power source . Power source may be any power source capable of providing sufficient current to power the components of beacon . In some embodiments power source may be a battery such as a watch battery or button cell.

In some embodiments beacon may be configured to transmit information using wireless transceivers based on instructions stored in memory and or firmware executed by processing component . The instructions may be stored in memory and or firmware by directly writing the instructions to memory and or firmware over communication link to beacon hardware interface or by wirelessly receiving instructions by wireless transceivers . In some embodiments beacon may be configured to transmit information related to checking in to a merchant associated with beacon . In some embodiments beacon may also transmit instructions that when received by client computing device may cause check in application or payment application to be executed by processing component to cause client computing device to perform a check in at the merchant associated with beacon . Further beacon may transfer instructions that when received by client computing device cause payment application to be executed by processing component to allow user to authorize a payment to be processed by remote server . In some embodiments wireless transceiver may correspond to a BLE transceiver configured to transmit and receive information according to the BLE protocol. In some embodiments beacon may be a BLE beacon or dongle such as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 938 860 filed on Jul. 10 2013 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. Further BLE beacon may have a design such as shown in U.S. Design application No. 29 455 720 filed May 23 2013 the entire contents of which are also incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

As will be readily appreciated the foregoing networks systems devices methods and variations thereof can be used to implement an automated check in of users at a cooperating or subscribing establishment such that subsequent purchase transactions and other activities can be more streamlined and convenient.

Merchant location includes an indoor store floor having a number of beacons . In some embodiments beacons may be BLE beacons. Beacons may further be in communication with remote server over network . These devices can be distributed strategically throughout merchant location such as near the front door at central locations and or at locations of high volume traffic within the establishment. One or more client computing devices such as smartphones tablets or the like can interact with one or more of the beacons throughout the store. Preferably only one interaction with a beacon is needed for a check in although it may be useful for an establishment to know where user is located and or user travel and shopping patterns or habits within a store. Such further information can be used to provide further advertising and promotional offers e.g. related to something at or near where the user is physically located and or to authenticate the actual user versus one who may have stolen or is otherwise using the mobile device in an unauthorized fashion. Such further authentication can involve checking known user traffic and shopping patterns against what is currently happening for a given device .

An actual automatic check in process can involve a subscribed or affirmatively active user entering a merchant location whereupon client computing device associated with user has a low level background program such as check in application running that detects a low level BLE signal from one or more beacons in the store. Client computing device can then wake up and communicate on a more active level with beacon . In some embodiments a unique device identifier and token can be generated and assigned to client computing device for a particular time location and session with appropriate expiration and other safeguards in place to protect against fraud or other misuse. For example a period of one or two hours might suffice for a typical check in session or event. The process of establishing communications between client computing device and beacon and exchanging metadata and a one time use beacon token to perform a check in is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 938 860 filed on Jul. 10 2013 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 021 045 filed on Sep. 9 2013 the entire contents of both of these applications which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

However parts used to produce beacons may have a limited amount of communications channels that allow for simultaneous communications with devices such as client computing device . For example processing component and wireless transceiver may be currently configured to only handle a limited number of simultaneous communications channels such that a beacon may only be able to be in communication with to check in provide offers process payments and the like with a limited number of client computing device . In particular current integrated circuits ICs and microchips used for current BLE devices may only handle a maximum of 37 concurrent data channels. As a result if more than 37 different client computing devices enter merchant location through door beacon cannot communicate will all of the client computing devices which means that beacon may not be able to check in all of the client computing devices or process payments for facilitate payment processing for each of the client computing devices .

Beacon may then continuously broadcast a generic identifier. In some embodiments the identifier may be a universally unique identifier UUID . The broadcast UUID may be received by client computing device to initiate communications with beacon . Beacon may then provide signed metadata a specific one time use beacon token and a digital signature associated with the signed metadata to client computing device . In some embodiments client computing device may request the metadata and other information from beacon when communications are initiated with beacon . Check in application may be configured to verify the metadata and other information such as the digital signature as being issued by the service provider by using a public key received from remote server . When the digital signature is verified as authentic check in application may then provide user with the option to check in. When user checks in client computing device may select a token received from remote server encrypt the selected token value and the received beacon token value using a key associated with the selected token and send these encrypted token values to beacon . Beacon then sends the encrypted token values to remote server which decrypts the values and checks in user and user device using the decrypted values. The process of checking in by communicating with a BLE beacon such as beacon is further described in in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 938 860 filed on Jul. 10 2013 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 021 045 filed on Sep. 9 2013 the entire contents of both of these applications which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Remote server may then assign a device identifier the client computing device and associated user and send the assigned device identifier to beacon . In some embodiments the device identifier may be a service UUID that is randomly generated by processing component of remote server at the time that user and user device is checked in and stored in account information of account database for example in a table associated with user and the associated client computing device . The generated UUID may be 32 bits or 128 bits in some embodiments. Moreover in some embodiments the UUID may be randomly generated by processing component of beacon . In some embodiments the service UUID may be provided to other beacons at the same location as the beacon that was in communication with client computing device and provided the encrypted token values to remote server . For example as shown in client computing device may initially be in communication with beacon near door such that beacon may be provided with a service UUID for client computing device when remote server checks in client computing device and user . Then other beacons in location may also be provided with the service UUID. In some embodiments memory may include one or more tables or other data structures capable of storing client computing devices and their associated assigned service UUIDs.

When beacon receives a service UUID for client computing device beacon may then send the assigned service UUID to client computing device along with instructions to broadcast the service UUID. Once the service UUID and the instructions to broadcast the service UUID are delivered to client computing device beacon stops active communications with client computing device freeing up the channel and resources that were being used to communicate with client computing device .

Client computing device may then begin to advertise the service UUID while beacon and other beacons passively scan for the service UUID to be broadcasted. In some embodiments a check in processed by remote server may have an expiration time such that the instructions to broadcast the service UUID provided to client computing device by beacon may include an instruction to only broadcast the service UUID for a time equal to the expiration time. In some embodiments the expiration time may be between about 1 hour and about 3 hours. In particular the expiration time may be about 2 hours.

When processing component of remote server determines that content should be provided to client computing device the content may be sent to beacon along with the specific service UUID to which the content should be provided. Beacon may then look for the specific service UUID and connect to client computing device broadcasting the specific service UUID resume or initiate if a different beacon than used to facilitate the check in communications and provide the content to client computing device . Once the content has been provided beacon may then cease active communications with client computing device freeing up the channel and resources that were being used such that they may be used for communicating with other devices.

In some embodiments the content that may be provided to device may be offers deals specials information about location and other such content. As noted above beacons in location may each scan for a UUID assigned to client computing device and broadcast client computing device . Consequently in some embodiments if beacon scans for the service UUID associated with client computing device and finds client computing device beacon can provide this information to remote server . Remote server may then know that client computing device and user are located in the proximity of beacon . As a result remote server may be able to provide content related to the area of location in which client computing device is found. For example remote server may provide offers or advertisements for products located near beacon when beacon notices client computing device broadcasting its assigned service UUID. Then when beacon notices the service UUID associated with client computing device remote server may provide offers or advertisements related to products near beacon . As another example location may be a museum or landmark and the like and remote server may provide information related to an exhibit or work at the location of beacon when beacon notices the service UUID associated with client computing device and the provide information related to a different exhibit or work located near beacon when beacon notices the service UUID associated with client computing device .

In some embodiments that content that may be provided to client computing device may be transaction related content including content related to paying for items user is purchasing from location . For example if beacon notices the service UUID associated with client computing device remote server may provide content related to a purchase or transaction. In some embodiments if no beacon in location notices the service UUID associated with client computing device while scanning this information can be provided to remote server such that remote server can assume that user and client computing device are no longer in location and can check user and client computing device out of location .

Client computing device may then initiate communications with beacon . In some embodiments client computing device may receive one or more tokens and a set of keys from remote server for use in checking in when client computing device signs up for an account with remote server registers for checking in with remote server or installs check in application . The received tokens and keys may be stored in memory component of client computing device and processing component of client computing device may verify the received identifier using the stored token.

Client computing device may then request metadata and other information from beacon . In response client computing device may receive metadata a beacon token and a digital signature from beacon for checking in to location . Processing component of client computing device may then verify the received information including the digital signature using keys stored in memory component of client computing device and received from remote server . Client computing device may then receive a check in acceptance in response to a check in prompt . In some embodiments upon verifying the metadata beacon token and digital signature check in application may prompt user to accept the check in to location by for example displaying an interactive prompt on display component . User may be able to accept the check in by interacting with the prompt using input component navigation control and display component or a combination thereof. When the received digital signature is verified processing component of client computing device may then encrypt token values and send these encrypted values to beacon . In some embodiments the encrypted values may be sent to beacon by wireless transceiver of client computing device using a BLE communication protocol.

Client computing device may then receive a device identifier. and instructions to broadcast the identifier . In some embodiments the received identifier may be a unique service UUID received from beacon . The received device identifier may then be stored in memory component and processing component may be configured to execute the instructions such that wireless transceiver broadcasts the device identifier . In some embodiments the instructions may specify that the device identifier is to be broadcasted for as long as an expiration time associated with the check in. Client computing device while broadcasting the device identifier may receive a request to communicate with beacon . When client computing device receives the request client computing device may then re establish or initiate communications with the requesting beacon and receive content from the beacon . In some embodiments the content may then be displayed by display component of client computing device for viewing by or taking action by user . In some embodiments the requesting beacon may be the same beacon that client computing device was previously in communication with. In other embodiments the requesting beacon may be a different beacon wherein the different beacon will be able to initiate communications with client computing device without having to go through steps since the beacon token will be the same. Consequently user having client computing device may enter location and perform steps with beacon and then receive a request from beacon while broadcasting the device identifier.

Beacon may then send metadata a beacon token and a digital signature in response to a request received from a device that received the broadcast identifier . In some embodiments the beacon token digital signature and metadata may be received from remote server and stored in memory component and or firmware . To complete the check in beacon may then receive encrypted token values from client computing device which are sent to remote server . Beacon may send a device identifier and instructions to broadcast the device identifier to client computing device . In some embodiments the device identifier may be a UUID and the instructions may specify that client computing device is to broadcast the device identifier for as long as an expiration time associated with the check in. Moreover the device identifier may be randomly generated by remote server and sent to beacon for sending to client computing device or the device identifier may be randomly generated by beacon . IN embodiments when beacon randomly generates the device identifier the generated device identifier may be sent to remote server and other beacons at a locations associated with beacon . Beacon may then stop communicating with client computing device to free up the communications channels and resources for use in communicating with other devices.

Although beacon has stopped communicating with client computing device beacon may continue to scan for the device identifier associated with client computing device . Beacon may periodically make a determination as to whether the device identifier is present by noting whether the device identifier is found during a scan . When the device identifier is determined to not be present beacon may notify remote server that the device identifier was not present . Remote server may then be able to make a determination as to whether another beacon in location noticed the device identifier associated with client computing device or whether if no beacons in location have noticed the device identifier that client computing device and user are no longer in location .

Beacon may continue to scan for the device identifier associated with client computing device until content is received from remote server . When content is received from remote server beacon may communicate with client computing device using the device identifier and provide the received content to client computing device . Beacon may then stop communicating with client computing device to free up the communications channels and resources for use in communicating with other devices and continue to scan for the device identifier associated with client computing device . In some embodiments when a check out expires or remote server determines that client computing device and user are no longer in location beacon may receive a notification to stop scanning for the device identifier.

Remote server may then check user and client computing device into location using one or more values decrypted from encrypted values received from beacon . As discussed above with respect to when user of client computing device accepts a check in client computing device may verify a beacon token provided by beacon and may then encrypt token values and send these encrypted values to beacon which may then send the encrypted values to remote server which processing component of remote server may decrypt and use to check in user and client computing device to location . Remote server may then assign user and client computing device a device identifier and send the device identifier to beacons at location . In some embodiments the device identifier may be a service UUID that may be generated by processing component of remote server and stored in account information of account database for example in a table associated with user and the associated client computing device .

Remote server in communication with beacons over network may receive a notification that the device identifier is no longer observed at location . When this happens remote server may check user and the associated client computing device out of location and inform beacons at location that user and associated client computing device is no longer at location . As described above with respect to a beacon at location may continue to scan for the device identifier assigned to client computing device and may do so until an expiration time has passed or until remote server provides information to the beacon that to no longer scan for the assigned device identifier.

Periodically processing component of remote server may determine that there is content to provide to user and client computing device and will provide the content to one or more beacons at location . In some embodiments remote server may store and tabulate the beacon that most recently noticed the device identifier when scanning and send content to only that beacon . In some embodiments the content may be provided to all beacons at location such that each beacon may try to find the device identifier to connect to client computing device and provide the content. Remote server may continue to perform steps until a notification that the device identifier is no longer received at location or the expiration time associated with the check in has passed .

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more machine readable mediums including non transitory machine readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

Consequently embodiments described herein may allow a BLE beacon to facilitate a check in with one user device and disconnect from the user device so that the channels and resources needed to facilitate the check in are freed up for other user devices. The embodiments described herein may then allow the BLE beacon to quickly connect a user device using a unique identifier assigned to the user device to deliver content. The examples provided above are exemplary only and are not intended to be limiting. One skilled in the art may readily devise other systems consistent with the disclosed embodiments which are intended to be within the scope of this disclosure. As such the application is limited only by the following claims.

