---

title: Systems and methods for interfacing with a network of moving things
abstract: A request from a mobile access point that is installed on a vehicle may be received via network interface circuitry of one or more computing devices. Processing circuitry of the one or more computing devices may determine characteristics of a captive portal to present in response to the request based on current location of the vehicle and mobile access point. A captive portal with the determined characteristics is then provided by the processing circuitry, via the network interface circuitry, in response to the request.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09521606&OS=09521606&RS=09521606
owner: Veniam, Inc.
number: 09521606
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160414
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 15 088 602 filed on Apr. 1 2016 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 145 titled Systems and Methods for Interfacing with a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 268 188 titled Captive Portal related Control and Management in a Network of Moving Things filed on Dec. 16 2015 each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present application is related to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 221 997 titled Integrated Communication Network for a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 62 222 192 titled Communication Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 016 titled Systems and Methods for Synchronizing a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 042 titled Systems and Methods for Managing a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 066 titled Systems and Methods for Monitoring a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 077 titled Systems and Methods for Detecting and Classifying Anomalies in a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 098 titled Systems and Methods for Managing Mobility in a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 135 titled Systems and Methods for Collecting Sensor Data in a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 121 titled Systems and Methods for Managing Connectivity a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 150 titled Systems and Methods for Interfacing with a User of a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 168 titled Systems and Methods for Data Storage and Processing for a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 183 titled Systems and Methods for Vehicle Traffic Management in a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 186 titled Systems and Methods for Environmental Management in a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 190 titled Systems and Methods for Port Management in a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 244 828 titled Utilizing Historical Data to Correct GPS Data in a Network of Moving Things filed on Oct. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 244 930 titled Using Anchors to Correct GPS Data in a Network of Moving Things filed on Oct. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 246 368 titled Systems and Methods for Inter Application Communication in a Network of Moving Things filed on Oct. 26 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 246 372 titled Systems and Methods for Probing and Validating Communication in a Network of Moving Things filed on Oct. 26 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 250 544 titled Adaptive Rate Control for Vehicular Networks filed on Nov. 4 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 273 878 titled Systems and Methods for Reconfiguring and Adapting Hardware in a Network of Moving Things filed on Dec. 31 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 253 249 titled Systems and Methods for Optimizing Data Gathering in a Network of Moving Things filed on Nov. 10 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 257 421 titled Systems and Methods for Delay Tolerant Networking in a Network of Moving Things filed on Nov. 19 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 265 267 titled Systems and Methods for Improving Coverage and Throughput of Mobile Access Points in a Network of Moving Things filed on Dec. 9 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 270 858 titled Channel Coordination in a Network of Moving Things filed on Dec. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 257 854 titled Systems and Methods for Network Coded Mesh Networking in a Network of Moving Things filed on Nov. 20 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 260 749 titled Systems and Methods for Improving Fixed Access Point Coverage in a Network of Moving Things filed on Nov. 30 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 273 715 titled Systems and Methods for Managing Mobility Controllers and Their Network Interactions in a Network of Moving Things filed on Dec. 31 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 281 432 titled Systems and Methods for Managing and Triggering Handovers of Mobile Access Points in a Network of Moving Things filed on Jan. 21 2016 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 270 678 titled Systems and Methods to Extrapolate High Value Data from a Network of Moving Things filed on Dec. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 272 750 titled Systems and Methods for Remote Software Update and Distribution in a Network of Moving Things filed on Dec. 30 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 278 662 titled Systems and Methods for Remote Configuration Update and Distribution in a Network of Moving Things filed on Jan. 14 2016 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 286 243 titled Systems and Methods for Adapting a Network of Moving Things Based on User Feedback filed on Jan. 22 2016 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 278 764 titled Systems and Methods to Guarantee Data Integrity When Building Data Analytics in a Network of Moving Things Jan. 14 2016 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 286 515 titled Systems and Methods for Self Initialization and Automated Bootstrapping of Mobile Access Points in a Network of Moving Things filed on Jan. 25 2016 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 295 602 titled Systems and Methods for Power Management in a Network of Moving Things filed on Feb. 16 2016 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 299 269 titled Systems and Methods for Automating and Easing the Installation and Setup of the Infrastructure Supporting a Network of Moving Things filed on Feb. 24 2016 each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

Current communication networks are unable to adequately support communication environments involving mobile and static nodes. As a non limiting example current communication networks are unable to adequately support a network comprising a complex array of both moving and static nodes e.g. the Internet of moving things . Limitations and disadvantages of conventional methods and systems will become apparent to one of skill in the art through comparison of such approaches with some aspects of the present methods and systems set forth in the remainder of this disclosure with reference to the drawings.

Various aspects of this disclosure provide communication network architectures systems and methods for interfacing with a network of moving things. As a non limiting example various aspects of this disclosure provide communication network architectures systems and methods for supporting a communication network comprising a complex array of both static and moving communication nodes e.g. the Internet of moving things .

As utilized herein the terms circuits and circuitry refer to physical electronic components i.e. hardware and any software and or firmware code that may configure the hardware be executed by the hardware and or otherwise be associated with the hardware. As used herein for example a particular processor and memory e.g. a volatile or non volatile memory device a general computer readable medium etc. may comprise a first circuit when executing a first one or more lines of code and may comprise a second circuit when executing a second one or more lines of code. Additionally a circuit may comprise analog and or digital circuitry. Such circuitry may for example operate on analog and or digital signals. It should be understood that a circuit may be in a single device or chip on a single motherboard in a single chassis in a plurality of enclosures at a single geographical location in a plurality of enclosures distributed over a plurality of geographical locations etc.

As utilized herein circuitry is operable to perform a function whenever the circuitry comprises the necessary hardware and code if any is necessary to perform the function regardless of whether performance of the function is disabled or not enabled e.g. by a user configurable setting factory setting or trim etc. .

As utilized herein and or means any one or more of the items in the list joined by and or . As an example x and or y means any element of the three element set x y x y . That is x and or y means one or both of x and y. As another example x y and or z means any element of the seven element set x y z x y x z y z x y z . That is x y and or x means one or more of x y and z. As utilized herein the terms e.g. and for example set off lists of one or more non limiting examples instances or illustrations.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting of the disclosure. As used herein the singular forms are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises includes comprising including has have having and the like when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another element. Thus for example a first element a first component or a first section discussed below could be termed a second element a second component or a second section without departing from the teachings of the present disclosure. Similarly various spatial terms such as upper lower side and the like may be used in distinguishing one element from another element in a relative manner. It should be understood however that components may be oriented in different manners for example an electronic device may be turned sideways so that its top surface is facing horizontally and its side surface is facing vertically without departing from the teachings of the present disclosure.

With the proliferation of the mobile and or static things e.g. devices machines people etc. and logistics for such things to become connected to each other e.g. in the contexts of smart logistics transportation environmental sensing etc. a platform that is for example always on robust scalable and secure that is capable of providing connectivity services and Internet access to such things or objects anywhere and anytime is desirable. Efficient power utilization within the various components of such system is also desirable.

Accordingly various aspects of the present disclosure provide a fully operable always on responsive robust scalable secure platform system architecture to provide connectivity services and Internet access to all mobile things and or static things e.g. devices machines people access points end user devices sensors etc. anywhere and anytime while operating in an energy efficient manner.

Various aspects of the present disclosure provide a platform that is flexibly configurable and adaptable to the various requirements features and needs of different environments where each environment may be characterized by a respective level of mobility and density of mobile and or static things and the number and or types of access to those things. Characteristics of various environments may for example include high mobility of nodes e.g. causing contacts or connections to be volatile high number of neighbors high number of connected mobile users mobile access points availability of multiple networks and technologies e.g. sometimes within a same area etc. For example the mode of operation of the platform may be flexibly adapted from environment to environment based on each environment s respective requirements and needs which may be different from other environments. Additionally for example the platform may be flexibly optimized e.g. at design installation time and or in real time for different purposes e.g. to reduce the latency increase throughput reduce power consumption load balance increase reliability make more robust with regard to failures or other disturbances etc. for example based on the content service or data that the platform provides or handles within a particular environment.

In accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure many control and management services e.g. mobility security routing etc. are provided on top of the platform e.g. directly using control overlays using containers etc. such services being compatible with the services currently deployed on top of the Internet or other communication network s .

The communication network or platform in whole or in part may for example be operated in public and or private modes of operation for example depending on the use case. The platform may for example operate in a public or private mode of operation depending on the use case e.g. public Internet access municipal environment sensing fleet operation etc. .

Additionally for example in an implementation in which various network components are mobile the transportation and or signal control mechanisms may be adapted to serve the needs of the particular implementation. Also for example wireless transmission power and or rate may be adapted e.g. to mitigate interference to reduce power consumption to extend the life of network components etc.

Various example implementations of a platform in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure are capable of connecting different subsystems even when various other subsystems that may normally be utilized are unavailable. For example the platform may comprise various built in redundancies and fail recovery mechanisms. For example the platform may comprise a self healing capability self configuration capability self adaptation capability etc. The protocols and functions of the platform may for example be prepared to be autonomously and smoothly configured and adapted to the requirements and features of different environments characterized by different levels of mobility and density of things or objects the number types of access to those things. For example various aspects of the platform may gather context parameters that can influence any or all decisions. Such parameters may for example be derived locally gathered from a neighborhood fixed APs the Cloud etc. Various aspects of the platform may also for example ask for historical information to feed any of the decisions where such information can be derived from historical data from surveys from simulators etc. Various aspects of the platform may additionally for example probe or monitor decisions made throughout the network for example to evaluate the network and or the decisions themselves in real time. Various aspects of the platform may further for example enforce the decisions in the network e.g. after evaluating the probing results . Various aspects of the platform may for example establish thresholds to avoid any decision that is to be constantly or repeatedly performed without any significant advantage e.g. technology change certificate change IP change etc. . Various aspects of the platform may also for example learn locally e.g. with the decisions performed and dynamically update the decisions.

In addition to or instead of failure robustness a platform may utilize multiple connections or pathways that exist between distinct sub systems or elements within the same sub system to increase the robustness and or load balancing of the system.

The following discussion will present examples of the functionality performed by various example subsystems of the communication network. It should be understood that the example functionality discussed herein need not be performed by the particular example subsystem or by a single subsystem. For example the subsystems present herein may interact with each other and data or control services may be deployed either in a centralized way or having their functionalities distributed among the different subsystems for example leveraging the cooperation between the elements of each subsystem.

Various aspects of the present disclosure provide a communication network e.g. a city wide vehicular network a shipping port sized vehicular network a campus wide vehicular network etc. that utilizes vehicles e.g. automobiles buses trucks boats forklifts etc. as Wi Fi hotspots. Note that Wi Fi is generally used throughout this discussion as an example but the scope of various aspects of this disclosure is not limited thereto. For example other wireless LAN technologies PAN technologies MAN technologies etc. may be utilized. Such utilization may for example provide cost effective ways to gather substantial amounts of urban data and provide for the efficient offloading of traffic from congested cellular networks or other networks . In controlled areas e.g. ports harbors etc. with many vehicles a communication network in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure may expand the wireless coverage of existing enterprise Wi Fi networks for example providing for real time communication with vehicle drivers e.g. human computer controlled etc. and other mobile employees without the need for SIM cards or cellular or other network data plans.

Vehicles may have many advantageous characteristics that make them useful as Wi Fi or general wireless hotspots. For example vehicles generally have at least one battery vehicles are generally densely spread over the city at street level and or they are able to establish many contacts with each other in a controlled space and vehicles can communicate with 10 the range of normal Wi Fi in the 5.9 GHz frequency band reserved for intelligent transportation systems in the EU the U.S. and elsewhere. Note that the scope of this disclosure is not limited to such 5.9 GHz wireless communication. Further vehicles are able to effectively expand their coverage area into a swath over a period of time enabling a single vehicle access point to interact with substantially more data sources over the period of time.

In accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure an affordable multi network on board unit OBU is presented. Note that the OBU may also be referred to herein as a mobile access point Mobile AP MAP etc. The OBU may for example comprise a plurality of networking interfaces e.g. Wi Fi 802.11p 4G Bluetooth UWB etc. . The OBU may for example be readily installed in or on private and or public vehicles e.g. individual user vehicles vehicles of private fleets vehicles of public fleets etc. . The OBU may for example be installed in transportation fleets waste management fleets law enforcement fleets emergency services road maintenance fleets taxi fleets aircraft fleets etc. The OBU may for example be installed in or on a vehicle or other structure with free mobility or relatively limited mobility. The OBU may also for example be carried by a person or service animal mounted to a bicycle mounted to a moving machine in general mounted to a container etc.

The OBUs may for example operate to connect passing vehicles to the wired infrastructure of one or more network providers telecom operators etc. In accordance with the architecture hardware and software functionality discussed herein vehicles and fleets can be connected not just to the cellular networks or other wide area or metropolitan area networks etc. and existing Wi Fi hotspots spread over a city or a controlled space but also to other vehicles e.g. utilizing multi hop communications to a wired infrastructure single or multi hop peer to peer vehicle communication etc. . The vehicles and or fleets may for example form an overall mesh of communication links for example including the OBUs and also fixed Access Points APs connected to the wired infrastructure e.g. a local infrastructure etc. . Note that OBUs herein may also be referred to as Mobile APs mobile hotspots MAPs etc. Also note that fixed access points may also be referred to herein as Road Side Units RSUs Fixed APs FAPs etc.

In an example implementation the OBUs may communicate with the Fixed APs utilizing a relatively long range protocol e.g. 802.11p etc. and the Fixed APs may in turn be hard wired to the wired infrastructure e.g. via cable tethered optical link etc. . Note that Fixed APs may also or alternatively be coupled to the infrastructure via wireless link e.g. 802.11p etc. . Additionally clients or user devices may communicate with the OBUs using one or more relatively short range protocols e.g. Wi Fi Bluetooth UWB etc. . The OBUs for example having a longer effective wireless communication range than typical Wi Fi access points or other wireless LAN PAN access points e.g. at least for links such as those based on 802.11p etc. are capable of substantially greater coverage areas than typical Wi Fi or other wireless LAN PAN access points and thus fewer OBUs are necessary to provide blanket coverage over a geographical area.

The OBU may for example comprise a robust vehicular networking module e.g. a connection manager which builds on long range communication protocol capability e.g. 802.11p etc. . For example in addition to comprising 802.11p or other long range protocol capability to communicate with Fixed APs vehicles and other nodes in the network the OBU may comprise a network interface e.g. 802.11a b g n 802.11ac 802.11af any combination thereof etc. to provide wireless local area network WLAN connectivity to end user devices sensors fixed Wi Fi access points etc. For example the OBU may operate to provide in vehicle Wi Fi Internet access to users in and or around the vehicle e.g. a bus train car taxi cab public works vehicle etc. . The OBU may further comprise one or more wireless backbone communication interfaces e.g. cellular network interfaces etc. . Though in various example scenarios a cellular network interface or other wireless backbone communication interface might not be the preferred interface for various reasons e.g. cost power bandwidth etc. the cellular network interface may be utilized to provide connectivity in geographical areas that are not presently supported by a Fixed AP may be utilized to provide a fail over communication link may be utilized for emergency communications may be utilized to subscribe to local infrastructure access etc. The cellular network interface may also for example be utilized to allow the deployment of solutions that are dependent on the cellular network operators.

An OBU in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure may for example comprise a smart connection manager that can select the best available wireless link s e.g. Wi Fi 802.11p cellular vehicle mesh etc. with which to access the Internet. The OBU may also for example provide geo location capabilities e.g. GPS etc. motion detection sensors to determine if the vehicle is in motion and a power control subsystem e.g. to ensure that the OBU does not deplete the vehicle battery etc. . The OBU may for example comprise any or all of the sensors e.g. environmental sensors etc. discussed herein.

The OBU may also for example comprise a manager that manages machine to machine data acquisition and transfer e.g. in a real time or delay tolerant fashion to and from the cloud. For example the OBU may log and or communicate information of the vehicles.

The OBU may for example comprise a connection and or routing manager that operates to perform routing of communications in a vehicle to vehicle vehicle to infrastructure multi hop communication. A mobility manager or controller MC may for example ensure that communication sessions persist over one or more handoff s also referred to herein as a handover or handovers e.g. between different Mobile APs Fixed APs base stations hot spots etc. among different technologies e.g. 802.11p cellular Wi Fi satellite etc. among different MCs e.g. in a fail over scenario load redistribution scenario etc. across different interfaces or ports etc. Note that the MC may also be referred to herein as a Local Mobility Anchor LMA etc. Note that the MC or a plurality thereof may for example be implemented as part of the backbone but may also or alternatively be implemented as part of any of a variety of components or combinations thereof. For example the MC may be implemented in a Fixed AP or distributed system thereof as part of an OBU or a distributed system thereof etc. Various non limiting examples of system components and or methods are provided in U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 222 098 filed Sep. 22 2015 and titled Systems and Method for Managing Mobility in a Network of Moving Things the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference. Note that in an example implementation including a plurality of MCs such MCs may be co located and or may be geographically distributed.

Various aspects of the present disclosure also provide a cloud based service oriented architecture that handles the real time management monitoring and reporting of the network and clients the functionalities required for data storage processing and management the Wi Fi client authentication and Captive Portal display etc.

A communication network or component thereof in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure may for example support a wide range of smart city applications or controlled scenarios or connected scenarios etc. and or use cases as described herein.

For example an example implementation may operate to turn each vehicle e.g. both public and private taxis buses trucks etc. into a Mobile AP e.g. a mobile Wi Fi hotspot offering Internet access to employees passengers and mobile users travelling in the city waiting in bus stops sitting in parks etc. Moreover through an example vehicular mesh network formed between vehicles and or fleets of vehicles an implementation may be operable to offload cellular traffic through the mobile Wi Fi hotspots and or fixed APs e.g. 802.11p based APs spread over the city and connected to the wired infrastructure of public or private telecom operators in strategic places while ensuring the widest possible coverage at the lowest possible cost.

An example implementation e.g. of a communication network and or components thereof may for example be operable as a massive urban scanner that gathers large amounts of data e.g. continuously on the move actionable or not generated by a myriad of sources spanning from the in vehicle sensors or On Board Diagnostic System port e.g. OBD2 etc. external Wi Fi Bluetooth enabled sensing units spread over the city devices of vehicles drivers and passengers e.g. information characterizing such devices and or passengers etc. positioning system devices e.g. position information velocity information trajectory information travel history information etc. etc.

Depending on the use case the OBU may for example process or computer transform manipulate aggregate summarize etc. the data before sending the data from the vehicle for example providing the appropriate granularity e.g. value resolution and sampling rates e.g. temporal resolution for each individual application. For example the OBU may for example process the data in any manner deemed advantageous by the system. The OBU may for example send the collected data e.g. raw data preprocessed data information of metrics calculated based on the collected data etc. to the Cloud e.g. to one or more networked servers coupled to any portion of the network in an efficient and reliable manner to improve the efficiency environmental impact and social value of municipal city operations and transportation services. Various example use cases are described herein.

In an example scenario in which public buses are moving along city routes and or taxis are performing their private transportation services the OBU is able to collect large quantities of real time data from the positioning systems e.g. GPS etc. from accelerometer modules etc. The OBU may then for example communicate such data to the Cloud where the data may be processed reported and viewed for example to support such public or private bus and or taxi operations for example supporting efficient remote monitoring and scheduling of buses and taxis respectively.

In an example implementation small cameras or other sensors may be coupled to small single board computers SBCs that are placed above the doors of public buses to allow capturing image sequences of people entering and leaving buses and or on stops along the bus routes in order to estimate the number of people waiting for a bus. Such data may be gathered by the OBU in order to be sent to the Cloud. With such data public transportation systems may detect peaks overcrowded buses routes and stops underutilized buses routes and stops etc. enabling action to be taken in real time e.g. reducing bus periodicity to decrease fuel costs and CO2 emissions where and when passenger flows are smaller etc. as well as detecting systematic transportation problems.

An OBU may for example be operable to communicate with any of a variety of Wi Fi enabled sensor devices equipped with a heterogeneous collection of environmental sensors. Such sensors may for example comprise noise sensors microphones etc. gas sensors e.g. sensing CO NO2 O3 volatile organic compounds or VOCs CO2 etc. smoke sensors pollution sensors meteorological sensors e.g. sensing temperature humidity luminosity particles solar radiation wind speed e.g. anemometer wind direction rain e.g. a pluviometer optical scanners biometric scanners cameras microphones etc. . Such sensors may also comprise sensors associated with users e.g. vehicle operators or passengers passersby etc. and or their personal devices e.g. smart phones or watches biometrics sensors wearable sensors implanted sensors etc. . Such sensors may for example comprise sensors and or systems associated with on board diagnostic OBD units for vehicles. Such sensors may for example comprise positioning sensors e.g. GPS sensors Galileo sensors GLONASS sensors etc. . Such sensors may for example comprise container sensors e.g. garbage can sensors shipping container sensors container environmental sensors container tracking sensors etc. .

Once a vehicle enters the vicinity of such a sensor device a wireless link may be established so that the vehicle or OBU thereof can collect sensor data from the sensor device and upload the collected data to a database in the Cloud. The appropriate action can then be taken. In an example waste management implementation several waste management or collection trucks may be equipped with OBUs that are able to periodically communicate with sensors installed on containers in order to gather information about waste level time passed since last collection etc. Such information may then sent to the Cloud e.g. to a waste management application coupled to the Internet etc. through the vehicular mesh network in order to improve the scheduling and or routing of waste management trucks. Note that various sensors may always be in range of the Mobile AP e.g. vehicle mounted sensors . Note that the sensor may also or alternatively be mobile e.g. a sensor mounted to another vehicle passing by a Mobile AP or Fixed AP a drone mounted sensor a pedestrian mounted sensor etc. .

In an example implementation for example in a controlled space e.g. a port harbor airport factory plantation mine etc. with many vehicles machines and employees a communication network in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure may expand the wireless coverage of enterprise and or local Wi Fi networks for example without resorting to a Telco dependent solution based on SIM cards or cellular fees. In such an example scenario apart from avoiding expensive cellular data plans limited data rate and poor cellular coverage in some places a communication network in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure is also able to collect and or communicate large amounts of data in a reliable and real time manner where such data may be used to optimize harbor logistics transportation operations etc.

For example in a port and or harbor implementation by gathering real time information on the position speed fuel consumption and CO2 emissions of the vehicles the communication network allows a port operator to improve the coordination of the ship loading processes and increase the throughput of the harbor. Also for example the communication network enables remote monitoring of drivers behaviors trucks positions and engines status and then be able to provide real time notifications to drivers e.g. to turn on off the engine follow the right route inside the harbor take a break etc. thus reducing the number and duration of the harbor services and trips. Harbor authorities may for example quickly detect malfunctioning trucks and abnormal trucks circulation thus avoiding accidents in order to increase harbor efficiency security and safety. Additionally the vehicles can also connect to Wi Fi access points from harbor local operators and provide Wi Fi Internet access to vehicles occupants and surrounding harbor employees for example allowing pilots to save time by filing reports via the Internet while still on the water.

The example network for example comprises a Cloud that may for example comprise any of a variety of network level components. The Cloud may for example comprise any of a variety of server systems executing applications that monitor and or control components of the network . Such applications may also for example manage the collection of information from any of a large array of networked information sources many examples of which are discussed herein. The Cloud or a portion thereof may also be referred to at times as an API. For example Cloud or a portion thereof may provide one or more application programming interfaces APIs which other devices may use for communicating interacting with the Cloud.

An example component of the Cloud may for example manage interoperability with various multi cloud systems and architectures. Another example component e.g. a Cloud service component may for example provide various cloud services e.g. captive portal services authentication authorization and accounting AAA services API Gateway services etc. . An additional example component e.g. a DevCenter component may for example provide network monitoring and or management functionality manage the implementation of software updates etc. A further example component of the Cloud may manage data storage data analytics data access etc. A still further example component of the Cloud may include any of a variety of third partly applications and services.

The Cloud may for example be coupled to the Backbone Core Infrastructure of the example network via the Internet e.g. utilizing one or more Internet Service Providers . Though the Internet is provided by example it should be understood that scope of the present disclosure is not limited thereto.

The Backbone Core may for example comprise any one or more different communication infrastructure components. For example one or more providers may provide backbone networks or various components thereof. As shown in the example network illustrated in a Backbone provider may provide wireline access e.g. PSTN fiber cable etc. . Also for example a Backbone provider may provide wireless access e.g. Microwave LTE Cellular 5G TV Spectrum etc. .

The Backbone Core may also for example comprise one or more Local Infrastructure Providers. The Backbone Core may also for example comprise a private infrastructure e.g. run by the network implementer owner etc. . The Backbone Core may for example provide any of a variety of Backbone Services e.g. AAA Mobility Monitoring Addressing Routing Content services Gateway Control services etc. .

The Backbone Core Infrastructure may comprise any of a variety of characteristics non limiting examples of which are provided herein. For example the Backbone Core may be compatible with different wireless or wired technologies for backbone access. The Backbone Core may also be adaptable to handle public e.g. municipal city campus etc. and or private e.g. ports campus etc. network infrastructures owned by different local providers and or owned by the network implementer or stakeholder. The Backbone Core may for example comprise and or interface with different Authentication Authorization and Accounting AAA mechanisms.

The Backbone Core Infrastructure may for example support different modes of operation e.g. L2 in port implementations L3 in on land public transportation implementations utilizing any one or more of a plurality of different layers of digital IP networking any combinations thereof equivalents thereof etc. or addressing pools. The Backbone Core may also for example be agnostic to the Cloud provider s and or Internet Service Provider s . Additionally for example the Backbone Core may be agnostic to requests coming from any or all subsystems of the network e.g. Mobile APs or OBUs On Board Units Fixed APs or RSUs Road Side Units MCs Mobility Controllers or LMAs Local Mobility Anchors etc. and or third party systems.

The Backbone Core Infrastructure may for example comprise the ability to utilize and or interface with different data storage processing systems e.g. MongoDB MySql Redis etc. . The Backbone Core Infrastructure may further for example provide different levels of simultaneous access to the infrastructure services data etc.

The example network may also for example comprise a Fixed Hotspot Access Network. Various example characteristics of such a Fixed Hotspot Access Network are shown at . The example network may for example share any or all characteristics with the other example networks and or network components and discussed herein.

In the example network the Fixed APs e.g. the proprietary APs the public third party APs the private third party APs etc. may be directly connected to the local infrastructure provider and or to the wireline wireless backbone. Also for example the example network may comprise a mesh between the various APs via wireless technologies. Note however that various wired technologies may also be utilized depending on the implementation. As shown different fixed hotspot access networks can be connected to a same backbone provider but may also be connected to different respective backbone providers. In an example implementation utilizing wireless technology for backbone access such an implementation may be relatively fault tolerant. For example a Fixed AP may utilize wireless communications to the backbone network e.g. cellular 3G LTE other wide or metropolitan area networks etc. if the backhaul infrastructure is down. Also for example such an implementation may provide for relatively easy installation e.g. a Fixed AP with no cable power source that can be placed virtually anywhere .

In the example network the same Fixed AP can simultaneously provide access to multiple Fixed APs Mobile APs e.g. vehicle OBUs etc. devices user devices sensors things etc. For example a plurality of mobile hotspot access networks e.g. OBU based networks etc. may utilize the same Fixed AP. Also for example the same Fixed AP can provide a plurality of simultaneous accesses to another single unit e.g. another Fixed AP Mobile AP device etc. for example utilizing different channels different radios etc. .

Note that a plurality of Fixed APs may be utilized for fault tolerance fail recovery purposes. In an example implementation a Fixed AP and its fail over AP may both be normally operational e.g. in a same switch . Also for example one or more Fixed APs may be placed in the network at various locations in an inactive or monitoring mode and ready to become operational when needed e.g. in response to a fault in response to an emergency services need in response to a data surge etc. .

Referring back to the example Fixed Hotspot Access Network is shown with a wireless communication link to a backbone provider e.g. to one or more Backbone Providers and or Local Infrastructure Providers to a Mobile Hotspot Access Network to one or more End User Devices and to the Environment. Also the example Fixed Hotspot Access Network is shown with a wired communication link to one or more Backbone Providers to the Mobile Hotspot Access Network to one or more End User Devices and to the Environment. The Environment may comprise any of a variety of devices e.g. in vehicle networks devices and sensors autonomous vehicle networks devices and sensors maritime or watercraft and port networks devices and sensors general controlled space networks devices and sensors residential networks devices and sensors disaster recovery emergency networks devices and sensors military and aircraft networks devices and sensors smart city networks devices and sensors event or venue networks devices and sensors underwater and underground networks devices and sensors agricultural networks devices and sensors tunnel auto subway train etc. networks devices and sensors parking networks devices and sensors security and surveillance networks devices and sensors shipping equipment and container networks devices and sensors environmental control or monitoring networks devices and sensors municipal networks devices and sensors waste management networks devices and sensors road maintenance networks devices and sensors traffic management networks devices and sensors advertising networks devices and sensors etc. .

The example network of also comprises a Mobile Hotspot Access Network. Various example characteristics of such a Mobile Hotspot Access Network are shown at . Note that various fixed network components e.g. Fixed APs are also illustrated. The example network may for example share any or all characteristics with the other example networks and or network components and discussed herein.

The example network comprises a wide variety of Mobile APs or hotspots that provide access to user devices provide for sensor data collection provide multi hop connectivity to other Mobile APs etc. For example the example network comprises vehicles from different fleets e.g. aerial terrestrial underground under water etc. . For example the example network comprises one or more mass distribution transportation fleets one or more mass passenger transportation fleets private public shared user fleets private vehicles urban and municipal fleets maintenance fleets drones watercraft e.g. boats ships speedboats tugboats barges etc. emergency fleets e.g. police ambulance firefighter etc. etc.

The example network for example shows vehicles from different fleets directly connected and or mesh connected for example using same or different communication technologies. The example network also shows fleets simultaneously connected to different Fixed APs which may or may not belong to different respective local infrastructure providers. As a fault tolerance mechanism the example network may for example comprise the utilization of long range wireless communication network e.g. cellular 3G 4G LTE etc. in vehicles if the local network infrastructure is down or otherwise unavailable. A same vehicle e.g. Mobile AP or OBU can simultaneously provide access to multiple vehicles devices things etc. for example using a same communication technology e.g. shared channels and or different respective channels thereof and or using a different respective communication technology for each. Also for example a same vehicle can provide multiple accesses to another vehicle device thing etc. for example using a same communication technology e.g. shared channels and or different respective channels thereof and or using a different communication technology .

Additionally multiple network elements may be connected together to provide for fault tolerance or fail recovery increased throughput or to achieve any or a variety of a client s networking needs many of examples of which are provided herein. For example two Mobile APs or OBUs may be installed in a same vehicle etc.

Referring back to the example Mobile Hotspot Access Network is shown with a wireless communication link to a backbone provider e.g. to one or more Backbone Providers and or Local Infrastructure Providers to a Fixed Hotspot Access Network to one or more End User Device and to the Environment e.g. to any one of more of the sensors or systems discussed herein any other device or machine etc. . Though the Mobile Hotspot Access Network is not shown having a wired link to the various other components there may at least at times be such a wired link at least temporarily.

The example network of also comprises a set of End User Devices. Various example end user devices are shown at . Note that various other network components e.g. Fixed Hotspot Access Networks Mobile Hotspot Access Network s the Backbone Core etc. are also illustrated. The example network may for example share any or all characteristics with the other example networks and or network components and discussed herein.

The example network shows various mobile networked devices. Such network devices may comprise end user devices e.g. smartphones tablets smartwatches laptop computers webcams personal gaming devices personal navigation devices personal media devices personal cameras health monitoring devices personal location devices monitoring panels printers etc. . Such networked devices may also comprise any of a variety of devices operating in the general environment where such devices might not for example be associated with a particular user e.g. any or all of the sensor devices discussed herein vehicle sensors municipal sensors fleet sensors road sensors environmental sensors security sensors traffic sensors waste sensors meteorological sensors any of a variety of different types of municipal or enterprise equipment etc. . Any of such networked devices can be flexibly connected to distinct backbone fixed hotspot access networks mobile hotspot access networks etc. using the same or different wired wireless technologies.

A mobile device may for example operate as an AP to provide simultaneous access to multiple devices things which may then form ad hoc networks interconnecting devices ultimately connected to distinct backbone networks fixed hotspot and or mobile hotspot access networks. Devices e.g. any or all of the devices or network nodes discussed herein may for example have redundant technologies to access distinct backbone fixed hotspot and or mobile hotspot access networks for example for fault tolerance and or load balancing purposes e.g. utilizing multiple SIM cards etc. . A device may also for example simultaneously access distinct backbone fixed hotspot access networks and or mobile hotspot access networks belonging to the same provider or to different respective providers. Additionally for example a device can provide multiple accesses to another device thing e.g. via different channels radios etc. .

Referring back to the example End User Devices are shown with a wireless communication link to a backbone provider e.g. to one or more Backbone Providers and or Local Infrastructure Providers to a Fixed Hotspot Access Network to a Mobile Hotspot Access Network and to the Environment. Also for example the example End User Devices are shown with a wired communication link to a backbone provider to a Fixed Hotspot Access Network to a Mobile Hotspot Access Network and to the Environment.

The example network illustrated in has a flexible architecture that is adaptable at implementation time e.g. for different use cases and or adaptable in real time for example as network components enter and leave service. illustrate such flexibility by providing example modes or configurations . The example networks may for example share any or all characteristics with the other example networks and or network components and discussed herein. For example and without limitation any or all of the communication links e.g. wired links wireless links etc. shown in the example networks are generally analogous to similarly positioned communication links shown in the example network of .

For example various aspects of this disclosure provide communication network architectures systems and methods for supporting a dynamically configurable communication network comprising a complex array of both static and moving communication nodes e.g. the Internet of moving things . For example a communication network implemented in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure may operate in one of a plurality of modalities comprising various fixed nodes mobile nodes and or a combination thereof which are selectable to yield any of a variety of system goals e.g. increased throughput reduced latency and packet loss increased availability and robustness of the system extra redundancy increased responsiveness increased security in the transmission of data and or control packets reduced number of configuration changes by incorporating smart thresholds e.g. change of technology change of certificate change of IP etc. providing connectivity in dead zones or zones with difficult access reducing the costs for maintenance and accessing the equipment for updating upgrading etc. . At least some of such modalities may for example be entirely comprised of fixed position nodes at least temporarily if not permanently.

For illustrative simplicity many of the example aspects shown in the example system or network of and other Figures herein are omitted from but may be present. For example the Cloud Internet and ISP aspects shown in and in other Figures are not explicitly shown in but may be present in any of the example configurations e.g. as part of the backbone provider network or coupled thereto as part of the local infrastructure provider network or coupled thereto etc. .

For example the first example mode is presented as a normal execution mode for example a mode or configuration in which all of the components discussed herein are present. For example the communication system in the first example mode comprises a backbone provider network a local infrastructure provider network a fixed hotspot access network a mobile hotspot access network end user devices and environment devices.

As shown in and in in more detail the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the first example mode or configuration via one or more wired or tethered links. For example the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to the local infrastructure provider network or any component thereof fixed hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via a wired link. Note that such a wired coupling may be temporary. Also note that in various example configurations the backbone provider network may also at least temporarily be communicatively coupled to the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof via one or more wired or tethered links.

Also shown in and in in more detail the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the first example mode or configuration via one or more wireless links e.g. RF link non tethered optical link etc. . For example the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to the fixed hotspot access network or any component thereof the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Also note that in various example configurations the backbone provider network may also be communicatively coupled to the local infrastructure provider network via one or more wireless or non tethered links.

Though not shown in the first example mode or any of the example modes of one or more servers may be communicatively coupled to the backbone provider network and or the local infrastructure network. provides an example of cloud servers being communicatively coupled to the backbone provider network via the Internet.

As additionally shown in and in in more detail the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the first example mode or configuration via one or more wired or tethered links. For example the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to the backbone provider network or any component thereof fixed hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wired links. Note that such a wired coupling may be temporary. Also note that in various example configurations the local infrastructure provider network may also at least temporarily be communicatively coupled to the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof via one or more wired or tethered links.

Also though not explicitly shown the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the first example mode or configuration via one or more wireless links e.g. RF link non tethered optical link etc. . For example the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to the backbone provider network or any component thereof the fixed hotspot access network or any component thereof the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Note that the communication link shown in the first example mode of between the local infrastructure provider network and the fixed hotspot access network may be wired and or wireless.

The fixed hotspot access network is also shown in the first example mode to be communicatively coupled to the mobile hotspot access network the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein. Additionally the mobile hotspot access network is further shown in the first example mode to be communicatively coupled to the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein. Further the end user devices are also shown in the first example mode to be communicatively coupled to the environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein. Note that in various example implementations any of such wireless links may instead or in addition comprise a wired or tethered link.

In the first example mode e.g. the normal mode information or data may be communicated between an end user device and a server e.g. a computer system via the mobile hotspot access network the fixed hotspot access network the local infrastructure provider network and or the backbone provider network. As will be seen in the various example modes presented herein such communication may flexibly occur between an end user device and a server via any of a variety of different communication pathways for example depending on the availability of a network depending on bandwidth utilization goals depending on communication priority depending on communication time or latency and or reliability constraints depending on cost etc. For example information communicated between an end user device and a server may be communicated via the fixed hotspot access network the local infrastructure provider network and or the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network . Also for example information communicated between an end user device and a server may be communicated via the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network fixed hotspot access network and or local infrastructure provider network .

Similarly in the first example mode e.g. the normal mode information or data may be communicated between an environment device and a server via the mobile hotspot access network the fixed hotspot access network the local infrastructure provider network and or the backbone provider network. Also for example an environment device may communicate with or through an end user device e.g. instead of or in addition to the mobile hotspot access network . As will be seen in the various example modes presented herein such communication may flexibly occur between an environment device and a server e.g. communicatively coupled to the local infrastructure provider network and or backbone provider network via any of a variety of different communication pathways for example depending on the availability of a network depending on bandwidth utilization goals depending on communication priority depending on communication time or latency and or reliability constraints depending on cost etc.

For example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the fixed hotspot access network the local infrastructure provider network and or the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network . Also for example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network fixed hotspot access network and or local infrastructure provider network . Additionally for example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the local infrastructure provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network and or fixed hotspot access network .

As discussed herein the example networks presented herein are adaptively configurable to operate in any of a variety of different modes or configurations . Such adaptive configuration may occur at initial installation and or during subsequent controlled network evolution e.g. adding or removing any or all of the network components discussed herein expanding or removing network capacity adding or removing coverage areas adding or removing services etc. . Such adaptive configuration may also occur in real time for example in response to real time changes in network conditions e.g. networks or components thereof being available or not based on vehicle or user device movement network or component failure network or component replacement or augmentation activity network overloading etc. . The following example modes are presented to illustrate characteristics of various modes in which a communication system may operate in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure. The following example modes will generally be discussed in relation to the first example mode e.g. the normal execution mode . Note that such example modes are merely illustrative and not limiting.

The second example mode or configuration e.g. a no backbone available mode may for example share any or all characteristics with the first example mode albeit without the backbone provider network and communication links therewith. For example the communication system in the second example mode comprises a local infrastructure provider network a fixed hotspot access network a mobile hotspot access network end user devices and environment devices.

As shown in and in in more detail the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the second example mode or configuration via one or more wired or tethered links. For example the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to the fixed hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wired links. Note that such a wired coupling may be temporary. Also note that in various example configurations the local infrastructure provider network may also at least temporarily be communicatively coupled to the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof via one or more wired or tethered links.

Also though not explicitly shown the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the second example mode or configuration via one or more wireless links e.g. RF link non tethered optical link etc. . For example the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to the fixed hotspot access network or any component thereof the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Note that the communication link s shown in the second example mode of between the local infrastructure provider network and the fixed hotspot access network may be wired and or wireless.

The fixed hotspot access network is also shown in the second example mode to be communicatively coupled to the mobile hotspot access network the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein. Additionally the mobile hotspot access network is further shown in the second example mode to be communicatively coupled to the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein. Further the end user devices are also shown in the second example mode to be communicatively coupled to the environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein. Note that in various example implementations any of such wireless links may instead or in addition comprise a wired or tethered link.

In the second example mode e.g. the no backbone available mode information or data may be communicated between an end user device and a server e.g. a computer etc. via the mobile hotspot access network the fixed hotspot access network and or the local infrastructure provider network. As will be seen in the various example modes presented herein such communication may flexibly occur between an end user device and a server via any of a variety of different communication pathways for example depending on the availability of a network depending on bandwidth utilization goals depending on communication priority depending on communication time or latency and or reliability constraints depending on cost etc. For example information communicated between an end user device and a server may be communicated via the fixed hotspot access network and or the local infrastructure provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network . Also for example information communicated between an end user device and a server may be communicated via the local infrastructure provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network and or fixed hotspot access network .

Similarly in the second example mode e.g. the no backbone available mode information or data may be communicated between an environment device and a server via the mobile hotspot access network the fixed hotspot access network and or the local infrastructure provider network. Also for example an environment device may communicate with or through an end user device e.g. instead of or in addition to the mobile hotspot access network . As will be seen in the various example modes presented herein such communication may flexibly occur between an environment device and a server e.g. communicatively coupled to the local infrastructure provider network via any of a variety of different communication pathways for example depending on the availability of a network depending on bandwidth utilization goals depending on communication priority depending on communication time or latency and or reliability constraints depending on cost etc.

For example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the fixed hotspot access network and or the local infrastructure provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network . Also for example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the local infrastructure provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network and or fixed hotspot access network .

The second example mode may be utilized for any of a variety of reasons non limiting examples of which are provided herein. For example due to security and or privacy goals the second example mode may be utilized so that communication access to the public Cloud systems the Internet in general etc. is not allowed. For example all network control and management functions may be within the local infrastructure provider network e.g. wired local network etc. and or the fixed access point network.

In an example implementation the communication system might be totally owned operated and or controlled by a local port authority. No extra expenses associated with cellular connections need be spent. For example cellular connection capability e.g. in Mobile APs Fixed APs end user devices environment devices etc. need not be provided. Note also that the second example mode may be utilized in a scenario in which the backbone provider network is normally available but is currently unavailable e.g. due to server failure due to communication link failure due to power outage due to a temporary denial of service etc. .

The third example mode or configuration e.g. a no local infrastructure and fixed hotspots available mode may for example share any or all characteristics with the first example mode albeit without the local infrastructure provider network the fixed hotspot access network and communication links therewith. For example the communication system in the third example mode comprises a backbone provider network a mobile hotspot access network end user devices and environment devices.

As shown in and in in more detail the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the third example mode or configuration via one or more wired or tethered links. For example the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wired links. Note that such a wired coupling may be temporary. Also note that in various example configurations the backbone provider network may also at least temporarily be communicatively coupled to the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof via one or more wired or tethered links.

Also shown in and in in more detail the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the third example mode or configuration via one or more wireless links e.g. RF link non tethered optical link etc. . For example the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links.

The mobile hotspot access network is further shown in the third example mode to be communicatively coupled to the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein. Further the end user devices are also shown in the third example mode to be communicatively coupled to the environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein. Note that in various example implementations any of such wireless links may instead or in addition comprise a wired or tethered link.

In the third example mode e.g. the no local infrastructure and fixed hotspots available mode information or data may be communicated between an end user device and a server e.g. a computer etc. via the mobile hotspot access network and or the backbone provider network. As will be seen in the various example modes presented herein such communication may flexibly occur between an end user device and a server via any of a variety of different communication pathways for example depending on the availability of a network depending on bandwidth utilization goals depending on communication priority depending on communication time or latency and or reliability constraints depending on cost etc. For example information communicated between an end user device and a server may be communicated via the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network .

Similarly in the third example mode e.g. the no local infrastructure and fixed hotspots available mode information or data may be communicated between an environment device and a server via the mobile hotspot access network and or the backbone provider network. Also for example an environment device may communicate with or through an end user device e.g. instead of or in addition to the mobile hotspot access network . As will be seen in the various example modes presented herein such communication may flexibly occur between an environment device and a server e.g. communicatively coupled to the backbone provider network via any of a variety of different communication pathways for example depending on the availability of a network depending on bandwidth utilization goals depending on communication priority depending on communication time or latency and or reliability constraints depending on cost etc. For example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network .

In the third example mode all control management functions may for example be implemented within the Cloud. For example since the mobile hotspot access network does not have a communication link via a fixed hotspot access network the Mobile APs may utilize a direct connection e.g. a cellular connection with the backbone provider network or Cloud . If a Mobile AP does not have such capability the Mobile AP may also for example utilize data access provided by the end user devices communicatively coupled thereto e.g. leveraging the data plans of the end user devices .

The third example mode may be utilized for any of a variety of reasons non limiting examples of which are provided herein. In an example implementation the third example mode may be utilized in an early stage of a larger deployment for example deployment that will grow into another mode e.g. the example first mode example fourth mode etc. as more communication system equipment is installed. Note also that the third example mode may be utilized in a scenario in which the local infrastructure provider network and fixed hotspot access network are normally available but are currently unavailable e.g. due to equipment failure due to communication link failure due to power outage due to a temporary denial of service etc. .

The fourth example mode or configuration e.g. a no fixed hotspots available mode may for example share any or all characteristics with the first example mode albeit without the fixed hotspot access network and communication links therewith. For example the communication system in the fourth example mode comprises a backbone provider network a local infrastructure provider network a mobile hotspot access network end user devices and environment devices.

As shown in and in in more detail the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the fourth example mode or configuration via one or more wired or tethered links. For example the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to the local infrastructure provider network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wired links. Note that such a wired coupling may be temporary. Also note that in various example configurations the backbone provider network may also at least temporarily be communicatively coupled to the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof via one or more wired or tethered links.

Also shown in and in in more detail the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the fourth example mode or configuration via one or more wireless links e.g. RF link non tethered optical link etc. . For example the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Also note that in various example configurations the backbone provider network may also be communicatively coupled to the local infrastructure provider network via one or more wireless or non tethered links.

As additionally shown in and in in more detail the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the fourth example mode or configuration via one or more wired or tethered links. For example the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to the backbone provider network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wired links. Note that such a wired coupling may be temporary. Also note that in various example configurations the local infrastructure provider network may also at least temporarily be communicatively coupled to the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof via one or more wired or tethered links.

Also though not explicitly shown the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the fourth example mode or configuration via one or more wireless links e.g. RF link non tethered optical link etc. . For example the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to the backbone provider network or any component thereof the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links.

The mobile hotspot access network is further shown in the fourth example mode to be communicatively coupled to the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein. Further the end user devices are also shown in the fourth example mode to be communicatively coupled to the environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein.

In the fourth example mode e.g. the no fixed hotspots mode information or data may be communicated between an end user device and a server via the mobile hotspot access network the local infrastructure provider network and or the backbone provider network. As will be seen in the various example modes presented herein such communication may flexibly occur between an end user device and a server via any of a variety of different communication pathways for example depending on the availability of a network depending on bandwidth utilization goals depending on communication priority depending on communication time or latency and or reliability constraints depending on cost etc. For example information communicated between an end user device and a server may be communicated via the local infrastructure provider network and or the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network . Also for example information communicated between an end user device and a server may be communicated via the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network and or local infrastructure provider network .

Similarly in the fourth example mode e.g. the no fixed hotspots available mode information or data may be communicated between an environment device and a server via the mobile hotspot access network the local infrastructure provider network and or the backbone provider network. Also for example an environment device may communicate with or through an end user device e.g. instead of or in addition to the mobile hotspot access network . As will be seen in the various example modes presented herein such communication may flexibly occur between an environment device and a server e.g. communicatively coupled to the local infrastructure provider network and or backbone provider network via any of a variety of different communication pathways for example depending on the availability of a network depending on bandwidth utilization goals depending on communication priority depending on communication time or latency and or reliability constraints depending on cost etc.

For example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the local infrastructure provider network and or the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network . Also for example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network and or local infrastructure provider network . Additionally for example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the local infrastructure provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network and or backbone provider network .

In the fourth example mode in an example implementation some of the control management functions may for example be implemented within the local backbone provider network e.g. within a client premises . For example communication to the local infrastructure provider may be performed through the backbone provider network or Cloud . Note that in a scenario in which there is a direct communication pathway between the local infrastructure provider network and the mobile hotspot access network such communication pathway may be utilized.

For example since the mobile hotspot access network does not have a communication link via a fixed hotspot access network the Mobile APs may utilize a direct connection e.g. a cellular connection with the backbone provider network or Cloud . If a Mobile AP does not have such capability the Mobile AP may also for example utilize data access provided by the end user devices communicatively coupled thereto e.g. leveraging the data plans of the end user devices .

The fourth example mode may be utilized for any of a variety of reasons non limiting examples of which are provided herein. In an example implementation the fourth example mode may be utilized in an early stage of a larger deployment for example a deployment that will grow into another mode e.g. the example first mode etc. as more communication system equipment is installed. The fourth example mode may for example be utilized in a scenario in which there is no fiber or other connection available for Fixed APs e.g. in a maritime scenario in a plantation scenario etc. or in which a Fixed AP is difficult to access or connect. For example one or more Mobile APs of the mobile hotspot access network may be used as gateways to reach the Cloud. The fourth example mode may also for example be utilized when a vehicle fleet and or the Mobile APs associated therewith are owned by a first entity and the Fixed APs are owned by another entity and there is no present agreement for communication between the Mobile APs and the Fixed APs. Note also that the fourth example mode may be utilized in a scenario in which the fixed hotspot access network is normally available but are currently unavailable e.g. due to equipment failure due to communication link failure due to power outage due to a temporary denial of service etc. .

The fifth example mode or configuration e.g. a no mobile hotspots available mode may for example share any or all characteristics with the first example mode albeit without the mobile hotspot access network and communication links therewith. For example the communication system in the fifth example mode comprises a backbone provider network a local infrastructure provider network a fixed hotspot access network end user devices and environment devices.

As shown in and in in more detail the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the fifth example mode or configuration via one or more wired or tethered links. For example the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to the local infrastructure provider network or any component thereof fixed hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wired links. Note that such a wired coupling may be temporary.

Also shown in and in in more detail the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the fifth example mode or configuration via one or more wireless links e.g. RF link non tethered optical link etc. . For example the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to the fixed hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Also note that in various example configurations the backbone provider network may also be communicatively coupled to the local infrastructure provider network via one or more wireless or non tethered links.

As additionally shown in and in in more detail the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the fifth example mode or configuration via one or more wired or tethered links. For example the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to the backbone provider network or any component thereof fixed hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wired links. Note that such a wired coupling may be temporary. Also note that in various example configurations the local infrastructure provider network may also at least temporarily be communicatively coupled to the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof via one or more wired or tethered links.

Also though not explicitly shown the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the fifth example mode or configuration via one or more wireless links e.g. RF link non tethered optical link etc. . For example the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to the backbone provider network the fixed hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Note that the communication link s shown in the fifth example mode of between the local infrastructure provider network and the fixed hotspot access network may be wired and or wireless.

The fixed hotspot access network is also shown in the fifth example mode to be communicatively coupled to the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein. Further the end user devices are also shown in the fifth example mode to be communicatively coupled to the environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein.

In the fifth example mode e.g. the no mobile hotspots available mode information or data may be communicated between an end user device and a server via the fixed hotspot access network the local infrastructure provider network and or the backbone provider network. As will be seen in the various example modes presented herein such communication may flexibly occur between an end user device and a server via any of a variety of different communication pathways for example depending on the availability of a network depending on bandwidth utilization goals depending on communication priority depending on communication time or latency and or reliability constraints depending on cost etc. For example information communicated between an end user device and a server may be communicated via the local infrastructure provider network and or the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the fixed hotspot access network . Also for example information communicated between an end user device and a server may be communicated via the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the fixed hotspot access network and or local infrastructure provider network .

Similarly in the fifth example mode e.g. the no mobile hotspots available mode information or data may be communicated between an environment device and a server via the fixed hotspot access network the local infrastructure provider network and or the backbone provider network. Also for example an environment device may communicate with or through an end user device e.g. instead of or in addition to the fixed hotspot access network . As will be seen in the various example modes presented herein such communication may flexibly occur between an environment device and a server e.g. communicatively coupled to the local infrastructure provider network and or backbone provider network via any of a variety of different communication pathways for example depending on the availability of a network depending on bandwidth utilization goals depending on communication priority depending on communication time or latency and or reliability constraints depending on cost etc.

For example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the local infrastructure provider network and or the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the fixed hotspot access network . Also for example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the fixed hotspot access network and or local infrastructure provider network . Additionally for example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the local infrastructure provider network e.g. skipping the fixed hotspot access network and or the backbone provider network .

In the fifth example mode in an example implementation the end user devices and environment devices may communicate directly to Fixed APs e.g. utilizing Ethernet Wi Fi etc. . Also for example the end user devices and or environment devices may communicate directly with the backbone provider network e.g. utilizing cellular connections etc. .

The fifth example mode may be utilized for any of a variety of reasons non limiting examples of which are provided herein. In an example implementation in which end user devices and or environment devices may communicate directly with Fixed APs such communication may be utilized instead of Mobile AP communication. For example the fixed hotspot access network might provide coverage for all desired areas.

Note also that the fifth example mode may be utilized in a scenario in which the fixed hotspot access network is normally available but is currently unavailable e.g. due to equipment failure due to communication link failure due to power outage due to a temporary denial of service etc. .

The sixth example mode or configuration e.g. the no fixed mobile hotspots and local infrastructure available mode may for example share any or all characteristics with the first example mode albeit without the local infrastructure provider network fixed hotspot access network mobile hotspot access network and communication links therewith. For example the communication system in the sixth example mode comprises a backbone provider network end user devices and environment devices.

As shown in and in in more detail the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the sixth example mode or configuration via one or more wired or tethered links. For example the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wired links. Note that such a wired coupling may be temporary.

Also shown in and in in more detail the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the sixth example mode or configuration via one or more wireless links e.g. RF link non tethered optical link etc. . For example the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links.

The end user devices are also shown in the sixth example mode to be communicatively coupled to the environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein.

In the sixth example mode e.g. the no fixed mobile hotspots and local infrastructure available mode information or data may be communicated between an end user device and a server via the backbone provider network. Similarly in the sixth example mode e.g. the no fixed mobile hotspots and local infrastructure mode information or data may be communicated between an environment device and a server via the backbone provider network. Also for example an environment device may communicate with or through an end user device e.g. instead of or in addition to the mobile hotspot access network .

The sixth example mode may be utilized for any of a variety of reasons non limiting examples of which are provided herein. In an example implementation for example in which an end user has not yet subscribed to the communication system the end user device may subscribe to the system through a Cloud application and by communicating directly with the backbone provider network e.g. via cellular link etc. . The sixth example mode may also for example be utilized in rural areas in which Mobile AP presence is sparse Fixed AP installation is difficult or impractical etc.

Note also that the sixth example mode may be utilized in a scenario in which the infrastructure provider network fixed hotspot access network and or mobile hotspot access network are normally available but are currently unavailable e.g. due to equipment failure due to communication link failure due to power outage due to a temporary denial of service etc. .

The seventh example mode or configuration e.g. the no backbone and mobile hotspots available mode may for example share any or all characteristics with the first example mode albeit without the backbone provider network mobile hotspot access network and communication links therewith. For example the communication system in the seventh example mode comprises a local infrastructure provider network fixed hotspot access network end user devices and environment devices.

As shown in and in in more detail the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the seventh example mode or configuration via one or more wired or tethered links. For example the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to the fixed hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wired links. Note that such a wired coupling may be temporary.

Also though not explicitly shown the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the seventh example mode or configuration via one or more wireless links e.g. RF link non tethered optical link etc. . For example the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to the fixed hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Note that the communication link shown in the seventh example mode of between the local infrastructure provider network and the fixed hotspot access network may be wired and or wireless.

The fixed hotspot access network is also shown in the seventh example mode to be communicatively coupled to the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein. Additionally the end user devices are also shown in the seventh example mode to be communicatively coupled to the environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein.

In the seventh example mode e.g. the no backbone and mobile hotspots available mode information or data may be communicated between an end user device and a server via the fixed hotspot access network and or the local infrastructure provider network. As will be seen in the various example modes presented herein such communication may flexibly occur between an end user device and a server via any of a variety of different communication pathways for example depending on the availability of a network depending on bandwidth utilization goals depending on communication priority depending on communication time or latency and or reliability constraints depending on cost etc. For example information communicated between an end user device and a server may be communicated via the local infrastructure provider network e.g. skipping the fixed hotspot access network .

Similarly in the seventh example mode e.g. the no backbone and mobile hotspots available mode information or data may be communicated between an environment device and a server via the fixed hotspot access network and or the local infrastructure provider network. Also for example an environment device may communicate with or through an end user device e.g. instead of or in addition to the mobile hotspot access network . As will be seen in the various example modes presented herein such communication may flexibly occur between an environment device and a server e.g. communicatively coupled to the local infrastructure provider network via any of a variety of different communication pathways for example depending on the availability of a network depending on bandwidth utilization goals depending on communication priority depending on communication time or latency and or reliability constraints depending on cost etc. For example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the local infrastructure provider network e.g. skipping the fixed hotspot access network .

The seventh example mode may be utilized for any of a variety of reasons non limiting examples of which are provided herein. In an example controlled space implementation Cloud access might not be provided e.g. for security reasons privacy reasons etc. and full or sufficient coverage of the coverage area is provided by the fixed hotspot access network and thus the mobile hotspot access network is not needed. For example the end user devices and environment devices may communicate directly e.g. via Ethernet Wi Fi etc. with the Fixed APs

Note also that the seventh example mode may be utilized in a scenario in which the backbone provider network and or fixed hotspot access network are normally available but are currently unavailable e.g. due to equipment failure due to communication link failure due to power outage due to a temporary denial of service etc. .

The eighth example mode or configuration e.g. the no backbone fixed hotspots and local infrastructure available mode may for example share any or all characteristics with the first example mode albeit without the backbone provider network local infrastructure provider network fixed hotspot access network and communication links therewith. For example the communication system in the eighth example mode comprises a mobile hotspot access network end user devices and environment devices.

As shown in and in in more detail the mobile hotspot access network is shown in the eighth example mode to be communicatively coupled to the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein. Further the end user devices are also shown in the eighth example mode to be communicatively coupled to the environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein.

In the eighth example mode e.g. the no backbone fixed hotspots and local infrastructure available mode information or data might not at least currently be communicated between an end user device and a server e.g. a coupled to the backbone provider network local infrastructure provider network etc. . Similarly information or data might not at least currently be communicated between an environment device and a server e.g. a coupled to the backbone provider network local infrastructure provider network etc. . Note that the environment device may communicate with or through an end user device e.g. instead of or in addition to the mobile hotspot access network .

The eighth example mode may be utilized for any of a variety of reasons non limiting examples of which are provided herein. In an example implementation the eighth example mode may be utilized for gathering and or serving data e.g. in a delay tolerant networking scenario providing peer to peer communication through the mobile hotspot access network e.g. between clients of a single Mobile AP between clients of respective different Mobile APs etc. etc. In another example scenario the eighth example mode may be utilized in a scenario in which vehicle to vehicle communications are prioritized above vehicle to infrastructure communications. In yet another example scenario the eighth example mode may be utilized in a scenario in which all infrastructure access is lost e.g. in tunnels parking garages etc. .

Note also that the eighth example mode may be utilized in a scenario in which the backbone provider network local infrastructure provider network and or fixed hotspot access network are normally available but are currently unavailable e.g. due to equipment failure due to communication link failure due to power outage due to a temporary denial of service etc. .

As shown and discussed herein it is beneficial to have a generic platform that allows multi mode communications of multiple users or machines within different environments using multiple devices with multiple technologies connected to multiple moving static things with multiple technologies forming wireless mesh hotspot networks over different environments connected to multiple wired wireless infrastructure network backbone providers ultimately connected to the Internet Cloud or private network infrastructure.

The network operations center is operable to provide one or more dashboards via which logged in users can manage and or monitor data and services to which they have access based on their credentials etc. .

The captive portal manager is operable to provide a captive portal which handles tasks such as getting user credentials validating user permissions displaying context aware content and others. The captive portal is further described below.

The events generator is operable to trigger generate events upon detecting conditions data etc. that an affiliate has selected to generate an event. An affiliate may be for example a network provider e.g. a cellular operator a cable television operator a DSL operator etc. a content provider e.g. Netflix Hulu Pandora and the like a business e.g. local store university etc. and or any other third party that has entered into an agreement with the operator of the APs. For example an event may be generated upon detection of reconfiguration of a network component receipt of particular type of traffic volume of traffic number of users users in a particular location etc. An event being generated may result in a log being updated an alert being sent to the affiliate etc.

The network monitor is operable to monitor analyze conditions in the network data being generated in the network etc. and generate statistics breakdowns reports etc. based on the analysis.

The message queue comprises memory operable to queue data for later processing. The queue may be logically portioned into a plurality of queues each of which holds traffic of a particular type having particular characteristics etc.

The data broker acts as an intermediary between the databases and the message queue to determine which data to store to which database which data to read from which database etc. The data broker may use various QoS prioritization rules for determining which queue to service at which time.

The database s may comprise relational and or non relational databases for storing data received by and generated in the network .

The cloud core comprises circuitry operable to provide a plurality of APIs and an API routing management system for interconnecting the APIs.

The Cloud may provide raw data parsed data dashboards for managing and monitoring the network and or a variety of other processes and services. The Cloud is operable to manage monitor and operate geographically diverse vehicular networks. The Cloud may provide functionalities such as for example management and deployment of remote automatic software updates for vehicles and infrastructure system wide network configuration management vehicular network monitoring big data collection and storage pre processing of data secure data at rest storage controlled access to resources dashboards and applications that tap into the network data and services and generation of network and system related events. The Cloud may be configured to automatically absorb network scaling without downtime period and while keeping the existing functionalities working. The Cloud may be configured to integrate with third party systems and to support the creation of new features without disrupting the previous system. The Cloud may be operable to run in any operating system of any cloud provider and provide mechanisms to avoid data lock in.

The Cloud may be operable to manage and distribute remote software updates for vehicles and infrastructure. The Cloud may be operable to perform system wide configuration management. The Cloud may be operable to trigger events related to the network fleet and any metrics calculated live from the data arriving at the Cloud. The Cloud may be operable to provide secure and reliable storage of data at rest. The Cloud may perform automatic generation of network and services analytics and may perform automatic system and network wide monitoring.

In a network such as network of terabytes of data may be produced as a result of the vehicular networks normal operation and metadata. The Cloud and its APIs enable different applications and services to leverage such data differently. Similarly the Cloud and its APIs can be leveraged differently by different applications and services. The Cloud and its APIs ensure that data and resources are only accessible to the rightful person or entity without compromising the security and access of the remaining data stored in the Cloud. The Cloud and its APIs ensure that users receive fast responses to their requests while being able to access whole resources which they have requested and for which they have access to. The Cloud and its APIs may be configured such that vehicular network nodes can access resources of the Cloud which are the subject of improvement without requiring the vehicular network nodes to change their own implementations to still remain compatible. The Cloud and its APIs may enable plugging in customized and or third party APIs that will provide specific functionalities regarding data analysis and features access.

The APIs of the Cloud core may be globally available and respond fast to any request coming from any location in the world. The APIs may be secure and guarantee global data accessibility with access control to the rightful resources. The APIs may be backward compatible yet easily upgradeable such that both vehicular network resources and third party entities can access vehicular network resources and data. The APIs allow third party entities to interact with the resources available at the vehicular network cloud.

The processes and services performed made available by the Cloud are enabled by a plurality of secure compartmentalized APIs which enable Vehicular network elements e.g. mobile APs fixed APs and LMAs to interact with the Cloud internal cloud based subsystems such as the Network Operations Center Captive Portal Events Generator Network Monitor Data Broker Message Queue etc. to interact with each other end users that want to consume public or restricted API resources to interact with the Cloud and third party applications to interact with the Cloud. In an example implementation of Cloud the APIs are modularized and or compartmentalized to allow easy upgrades on the functionalities separate the goals of each API and provide separately secured access to the various APIs.

In an example implementation the API s include an authentication API configured to provide access to authentication functionalities of the cloud for authenticating the consumers of all of APIs and validating and granting the access to the rightful resources a captive portal API configured to provide access to captive portal related functionalities of the cloud such as getting access to user information validating if a bus is authorized to provide access to the Internet etc. a data management API configured to provide access to stored raw and pre processed data in the cloud a location API configured to provide access to vehicle location history and location enhancements functionalities in the cloud a metrics API configured to provide access to pre processed metrics regarding the network generated stored in the cloud a mobility API configured to provide access to mobility related metrics and functionalities such as live traffic jam detection street traffic intensity values roadblock information and listing etc. a network API configured to provide access to vehicular network management related functionalities performed by the cloud an operations API configured to provide access to cloud operations options such as scheduling an intervention in a vehicle access vehicle stock and allocation report a problem in a vehicle etc. a real time API operable to provide access to real time metrics of vehicles fleet infrastructure and network a sensors API configured to provide back end compatibility with constrained application protocol CoAP and access to sensors data information and data a software API configured to provide access to remote software updates management resources providing functionalities such as launching or scheduling a software update request a full software update access previous software versions etc. and a system tuner API configured to provide access to configuration management resources functionalities of the cloud such as scheduling and setting a new configuration to be distributed into the network changing existing configuration parameters getting current and past configurations set up in the network.

In an example implementation it is possible to plug in affiliate specific APIs that provide third party specific functionalities regarding data analysis and features access. These customized and or third party specific APIs can be plugged in to the whole system for a limited time and easy switched on and off if required. Managing the available APIs and which users can access which APIs is performed using multiple configurations which allows the same system to be reused and adapted to multiple situations.

The APIs may be secured in multiple non exclusive ways. For example an API user may be required to provide a valid username and password combination provide a valid access token and or perform requests from a secure non public network domain. As for the username and password combination in an example implementation an API consumer can either register itself to have access to the API and generate his own credentials username and password or the cloud can create the credentials and provide them to the intended consumer. Authorization mechanisms may rely on several different systems such as a username and password a RADIUS server a secure database and delegated authentication oAuth . Each of these systems may comprise several different security requirements in order to offer a reliable and secure mechanism. Username and password authorization mechanisms may be mandatory to access the Authentication API as well as other highly restricted API available functionalities.

At F the Cloud requests the User s login credentials. At G the User supplies her login credentials. At H the entered login credentials are sent to the Cloud . At I the Cloud checks if the credentials are correct. If the credentials are correct then at J the Cloud redirects the User to a success page which is hosted in the Mobile AP. At K the User requests the success page from the Mobile AP . At L the mobile AP extracts the authentication token from the request. At M the mobile AP requests the Cloud to validate the token. At N the Cloud validates the token. At O the Cloud replies to the Mobile AP that the token is correct and supplies a timeout value which may be determined by a affiliate s service agreement policy to be used for user . The Mobile AP receives this information and at P redirects the User to a the captive portal. At Q the User requests the captive portal which in the example shown is hosted in the Cloud but it can also be hosted in the Mobile AP itself. At R the Cloud selects a context specific splash page. The context may determine the content of the splash page and or the authentication methods used by the splash page. The context may for example comprise characteristics of the vehicle on which the Mobile AP is installed e.g. an affiliate associated with the vehicle e.g. its operator whether it is a bus a train etc. the location of the Mobile AP e.g. its GPS coordinates street address etc. the affiliate s associated with the request characteristics of the user device e.g. its make model size networking configurations etc. the current time etc. At S the Cloud serves the splash page to the User . After being shown this page the User is free to surf the Internet.

In another example implementation E F G I J N R and S may be performed by the web server authentication management and splash page management circuitry of the mobile AP rather than the Cloud .

In another example implementation E F G I J N R and S may be performed by circuitry of an affiliate s network.

In another example implementation the captive portal may fallback to other authentication options in the case that the mobile AP cannot connect to the Cloud . For example if a mobile AP has a working Internet connection but is unable to establish a connection to the Cloud the user authentication process may be done using a third party solution which allows users to continue being authenticated and user accounting information recorded.

In block the captive portal determines if the user is authenticated. If so in block the user is presented a context specific splash screen indicating that the user is connected to the Internet. If not the process advances to block .

In block in response to the redirect the user sends a request for the splash page process to cloud based captive portal CP .

In block the captive portal determines what authentication method process the affiliate has put in place. If the method is username and password then the process advances to block .

In block the captive portal determines whether the username password authentication is to be performed locally i.e. credentials are stored in the cloud or externally credentials are stored in the affiliate s network . If the former then the process advances to block in which the captive portal validates the credentials using the authentication API of the cloud. From block the process advances to block .

Returning to block if the authentication is to be performed externally in the affiliate s network the process advanced to block in which the captive portal communicates with the affiliate s network to validate the credentials. From block the process advances to block .

In block if the credentials are invalid then the process advances to block and the user is redirected to a login failure page.

Returning to block if the credentials are valid then the process advances to block . In block the captive portal generates and sends a token to the user and redirects the user to a login success page.

In block in response to the redirect the user sends the token and a request for the success page to the mobile AP.

In block the token is validated. If it is valid then the process advances to block in which the captive portal sends an OK response to the affiliate s mobile AP and the process advances to block .

In block the affiliate s mobile AP adds the user to its firewall to allow the user to access services provided via the mobile AP e.g. access the Internet via the mobile AP .

In block the captive portal performs splash page procedures e.g. displays the splash screen for a determined period of time and then redirects to the webpage originally requested by the user in block .

Returning to block if the token is invalid then the process advances to block in which the cloud based captive portal sends an error response to the mobile AP. Then in block the cloud captive portal performs an authorization error procedure e.g. displaying an error message and returning to block 

Returning to block if the authentication method is oAuth e.g. using a Facebook account Google account Amazon account etc. to login then the process advances to block . In block the captive portal renders the oAuth login page e.g. displays links to a variety of external authentication methods . The user may select one of the methods the authentication may take place and the external service may return a response indicating whether the user s credentials are valid. The process may then advance to block .

Returning to block if the authentication process is geographic radius then the process advances to block . In block the captive portal renders a page to cause or instruct the user to reconfigure its device for WPA2 802.1x authentication which may be performed by a third party server. After block the process may proceed to block .

An example process for using username and password combination as an authorization mechanism to access an API is shown in . The process begins with a request having an authorization method of username and password being received. In block the authorization header of the request is decoded. In block the username and password combination is validated. In block if the username and password combination is invalid then a reply indicating wrong credentials is generated. If the username and password combination is correct then in blocks and circuitry of the Cloud checks a database to see if the user has access to the resource it is requesting. If not then a reply indicating the user is not authorized is generated. If the user is authorized then in block the request is authorized and the requested resource is provided.

In an example implementation every request to the API must include an access token that will later be used to validate the rightful access to the requested resource. An API access token besides the mandatory headers defined in RFC 7519 may include for example the name of the issuer of the token and the expiration date of the token. The access token may be generated using either an API management dashboard or through the Authentication API. A user must be authorized before being provided access to perform operations such as requesting a new access token revoking an access token and renewing the expiration date of an access token. Access tokens may be stored securely in a database accessible only to circuitry of the Cloud.

In an example implementation tokens can have two different domains 1 API consumer domain and 2 network node domain. For the first domain an application or service interacts with the API and the token is programmed into the application by a user that manually or automatically requests a token to the API. In the second domain a network node automatically requests a token to the API and uses that same token to interact in any remaining API requests. illustrate the differences and similarities of requesting an API token in two different domains.

In is shown the network node domain. The process begins with block in which the network node sends a request for a token. The request indicates that username and password is the method of authorization. In block the username and password combination received in the request is validated by circuitry of the Cloud to confirm that the network node is authorized to receive a token. In block a network token is generated stored to a database in the Cloud and sent to the network node. In block the token is received by the network node and stored in memory. In block the network node generates a request and sends it to the Cloud the request includes the token. In block the resource request from the network node is received by circuitry of the Cloud. The circuitry of the cloud validates the token. If the token is valid then in block the cloud provides the requested resource in a response.

In is shown the API consumer domain. The process begins with block in which the API generates and sends a request for a token. The request indicates that username and password is the method of authorization. For example block may be triggered by a user typing in a username and password into a mobile application or web browser. In block the username and password combination received in the request is validated by the Cloud to confirm that the API consumer is authorized to receive a token. In block an API token is generated stored to a database in the Cloud and transmitted to the API consumer. In block the received API token is manually entered e.g. typed and or copy pasted into an application service e.g. a mobile application or browser based application . In block the application service generates and sends a request for a resource and includes the API token with the request. In block the Cloud receives the request and validates the token. If the token is valid the Cloud provides the requested resource in a response.

The captive portal may enable affiliates and or any other third parties to have a visual presence whenever a user joins the network with a splash screen to display information such ads logos etc. Some Wi Fi networks require registration and or user credentials to access them. The captive portal supports multiple registration and authentication mechanisms to meet different affiliate requirements. The captive portal may enable affiliates to show content aware and user oriented content in splash screens. The captive portal may enable affiliates to measure and monitor network use by users and devices. Some affiliates may already have existing splash pages on servers that they control the captive portal supports displaying content from such servers.

The captive portal allows e.g. via analytics circuitry of a mobile AP user sessions to be tracked for later analysis. The captive portal allows differentiated behavior according to a set of factors such as for example geographic location session time based on which train bus etc. the user is on the current or next stop of the bus train etc. number and type of connected users in the same bus train etc. number of connected users nearby on the street whether the bus train is on time or any other factor. Which factors are used for the differentiated behavior may be configurable per ISP per sponsor etc. This behavior may be for example which splash page the user sees which ads the user sees how often a splash screen is redisplayed etc. The captive portal may allow support for multiple affiliates in the same mobile AP meaning that different users may see different behavior e.g. gain access to different networks and or services according to the group they belong to. The captive portal may support asynchronous communication between the portal and servers used for authentication and content delivery. The captive portal may provide the ability to create geo caged and time sensitive campaigns provided to the users using context and enhanced context aware content. The captive portal is able to cope with multiple affiliates and fleet types at the same time. The captive portal is able to display splash pages that are hosted in the affiliate s IT premises and fully owned and controlled by the affiliate. The captive portal is operable to distribute local content to be cached and hosted locally in the vehicle in the Mobile AP.

In addition to splash page toolbar etc. content being managed based on the context information services provided to the user and or routing switching functions provided by the AP may also be managed based on the context information. For example the context information may be used to provide geographic service limitations. Different affiliates may have different service offerings and the mobile AP may be configured to check this in real time and provide service in accordance with a affiliate s service agreements preferences requirements based on location e.g. when user is outside a service area of its mobile carrier the mobile AP may refuse Internet access to the user as required by an agreement between the mobile carrier and the operator of the mobile AP . As another example the number of users connected to the mobile AP at any given time may be restricted per agreement with each affiliate of the network of moving things. For instance when the mobile AP is outside a coverage area of fixed APs of the network of moving things the costs of communicating affiliate traffic over a cellular connection may be passed on to the affiliates. To limit these charges a client may limit which of the client s devices e.g. only devices of particular types models etc. only devices on particular vehicles only devices of particular subscribers subscriber plans etc. which are permitted to be connected to the mobile AP in areas outside of that affiliate s coverage area a maximum number of the affiliate s devices that are permitted to be concurrently connected to the mobile AP in areas outside the affiliate s coverage area maximum amount instantaneous or aggregate of traffic to from the affiliate s devices that is permitted in areas that are outside of the affiliate s coverage area and or the like. As another example an affiliate may desire to offer free access to the Internet for a limited period of time and after this time has expired the user is asked to either input login credentials to continue accessing the Internet or execute a payment to continue. The mobile AP can handle this on behalf of the affiliate and pass subsequent billing information onto the affiliate.

The cloud based captive portal provides an API that gives affiliates the ability to upload a new content logo text HTML CSS and or the like to be displayed on a splash screen modify a selected authentication mechanism modify selected authentication configurations change user registration mechanism define time limited and geo limited campaigns e.g. each campaign may have corresponding splash screen content discounts. Services etc. change external Splash Page destination URL update Terms and Conditions for using affiliate resources change affiliate timeout periods and or the like. The cloud based captive portal may be configured to redirect to custom Splash Pages which may be hosted on an affiliate controlled server. In such an instance the captive portal may handle all authentication steps and once complete redirect to the affiliate s page. The cloud based Captive Portal may interact with a captive portal running in a mobile access point to perform affiliate authentication steps and display desired the splash page.

A cloud based captive portal in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure allows for multiple authentication authorization and accounting mechanisms for captive portal access control. The cloud based captive portal in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure provides resources interfaces for the creation of time limited and geo limited campaigns. A cloud based captive portal in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure leverage connected vehicles unique characteristics to enhance captive portal s displayed content with context aware and enhanced context aware content. The cloud based captive portal in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure allows provides the affiliate with control over the campaigns and the content presented to users. A cloud based captive portal in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure allows provide a three entity Mobile device mobile AP and Captive Portal server validation of access to the Internet. Unlike captive portals designed for fixed locations the cloud based captive portal described herein is able to receive information from the vehicles like the number and profile of connected users the intended destination of the vehicle the type of vehicle as well as many others. That information allows for the creation of a more tailored experience of the content displayed to the end users.

In accordance with an example implementation of this disclosure a request from a mobile access point e.g. that is installed on a vehicle may be received via network interface circuitry of one or more computing devices e.g. computing devices of the Cloud of . Processing circuitry of the one or more computing devices e.g. one or more processors and memory of the servers hosting the Cloud may determine characteristics of a captive portal to present in response to the request based on current location e.g. determined based on GPS coordinates and or which other access points are in range of the vehicle and mobile access point. A captive portal with the determined characteristics is then provided by the processing circuitry via the network interface circuitry in response to the request. The characteristics of the captive portal may comprise visual and or audio content of the captive portal. The visual and or audio content may comprise traffic accounting information for a user device from which the request originated. The visual and or audio content of the captive portal may be determined based on a predetermined route of the vehicle e.g. a public bus route train route shipping route etc. . The characteristics of the captive portal may be based on whether the vehicle is on schedule behind schedule or ahead of schedule on its route. The characteristics of the captive portal may be determined based on a speed of the vehicle. The characteristics of the captive portal may be determined based on an affiliate associated with the mobile access point e.g. different captive portal characteristic s may be determined for a mobile access point of a bus operator than for a mobile access point of a train operator . The characteristics of the captive portal may be determined based on which of a plurality of network providers associated with the mobile access point provided a backhaul connection to the mobile access point for backhauling the request e.g. different captive portal characteristics may be determined when the mobile access point is backhauled over a cellular connection provided by a first network provider than when the mobile access point is backhauled over a WiFi connection to a fixed access point provided by a second network provider. The characteristics of the captive portal may comprise an authentication technique to be used for authenticating a user device on behalf of which the request was sent. The authentication technique may be selected from a set of techniques including username and password and oAuth. The characteristics of the captive portal may be determined based on characteristics of a user device on behalf of which the request was sent. The characteristics of the user device may comprise an expected location at which the user device will de board the vehicle. The characteristics of the user device may comprise whether the user device transferred from another vehicle within a determined amount of time of the current time. The processing circuitry may provide via the networking circuitry a plurality of application programming interfaces APIs wherein access to each one of the plurality of APIs is controlled separately from access to each other one of the plurality of APIs. Access to one or more of the plurality of APIs may be restricted to a user device associated with an operator of the vehicle e.g. a first API may be available only to a user device of the bus driver whereas a second API may be available user devices of passengers on the bus .

In summary various aspects of this disclosure provide communication network architectures systems and methods for interfacing with a network of moving things. As a non limiting example various aspects of this disclosure provide communication network architectures systems and methods for supporting a communication network comprising a complex array of both static and moving communication nodes e.g. the Internet of moving things . While the foregoing has been described with reference to certain aspects and examples it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the disclosure. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the disclosure without departing from its scope. Therefore it is intended that the disclosure not be limited to the particular example s disclosed but that the disclosure will include all examples falling within the scope of the appended claims.

