---

title: Data transmission using dynamically rendered message content prestidigitation
abstract: A communication method and system according to the present invention generates a unique cryptographically secure URI in response to receiving a user post. The user post and URI are stored temporarily. The URI is sent to an intended recipient. In response to a first instance of accessing the URI, the content is retrieved and sent to the intended recipient. The original uploaded content and URI are then deleted. In response to subsequent instances of accessing the URI, random content determined in part by a current environmental state of the communication, is returned. Recent subsequent instances can return thematically similar content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09635027&OS=09635027&RS=09635027
owner: Blink.Cloud LLC
number: 09635027
owner_city: Alexandria
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160902
---
Information technology has grown to be a part of millions of people s lives and the reliance on encrypted systems for communicating private data confidential information financial transactions and digital media have become vitally important to society. Over the last few years the world has seen some of the worst information security breaches of all time. The focus of the information security industry over the last few decades has been centered on public private key cryptography and the ability to combat an attacker s attempt to compromise a message or system via brute force methods. These industry standard methods for securing messages and message contents have proven to be insufficient in protecting data from compromise and surveillance.

It is thus desirable to provide a secure communication method that achieves reasonable levels of security by means other than public private key cryptography and is resistant to compromise using brute force methods.

The embodiments of the present invention described herein relate to the fields of information security and allow two parties to communicate and exchange data securely and openly between themselves with built in mechanisms for detection of message interception as well as assurance that messages or transactions are not stored indefinitely after being viewed. The communication method of the present invention is different from encryption based security methods and by extension accepts the following premises 

That time dictates the security and privacy of encrypted data given enough time encrypted data can and will be decrypted and compromised 

That compromised systems further lead to additional compromised systems using information gained through comprise of the first system e.g. federated logins shared or similar passwords user account information message contents stored in plain text unencrypted files or folders etc. and

The average time to comprise a message is a standard value based on the level of entropy of the resource generated average length of time a particular file or message exists within a system active use of individual resources within the set of all possible resources and the number of resources that can be evaluated in a given period of time.

Given the above premises a system that returns the contents of all combinations of unique resources within the set of all possible resources on demand and provides users the ability to momentarily define the contents of a resource and share a single exposure of said resource through an external channel to an intended recipient provides a sufficiently deterrent method to a variety of surveillance and eavesdropping techniques as well as large scale cyber attacks including but not limited to Distributed Denial of Service DDOS State Extension and Man in the Middle attacks as well as prevents compromise of sensitive data in separate information technology systems that were encapsulated by the invention using the methods described below.

An embodiment of the present invention comprises generating a publicly accessible resource which is a Uniform Resource Identifier URI hyperlink. As is known in the art other such resources can be used such as a Uniform Resource Locator URL . Accordingly to an embodiment of the invention no authentication is required and the method of the present invention returns uploaded content to a requestor upon the first instance of the URI hyperlink selection. The returned content can be momentarily edited and stored at a randomly generated URI. The next actor to request the unique resource s contents by identifier will receive randomly generated content and by design cause the original uploaded contents to be destroyed after the contents are queried by the system and returned. This allows the two parties to communicate openly with assurance that the sender s message was not observed before the intended receiver had a chance to view it. If a third party did manage to view the message before the intended viewer the intended viewer would be exposed to dynamically generated message contents that would serve as an indication that the original message was compromised. According to an embodiment of the present invention if the transaction history of the message were to be compromised in a third party system such as an email system the URI that was used for the original message would still be an active URI as the resources are all persistent however only dynamically rendered content would be returned as the original message has already been viewed by the intended recipient and hence has been destroyed. The method of the present invention allows actors to encapsulate secure portions of their messages or the entire message and allows them to share a unique URI link to that message for future viewing by an intended recipient. In comparison to traditional encryption methods the unique resource identifier generated according to the present invention corresponds to a successful key to the message known only to the actor who originally generated the key. This key and its message persist throughout time until it is requested to be viewed or a specific time limit determined by the system is reached or the existence of the message is ultimately determined by the system. This successful key and its contents exist within the space of all possible keys and by extension of the methods used to generate random content within the system all possible messages given the environmental constraints of the system including the maximum length of the URI possible maximum number of symbols possible for each character in the sequence and the overall computational capabilities of the system.

According to the communication method of the present invention attackers can openly attempt to mount a brute force attack as they and the rest of the public given access to the Internet can request content for all possible combinations of the URI. Each subsequent attempt to access a resource after an initial successful access is met with a random content response which is either configured by a human user or a third party machine or generated by the invention using dynamic content generation techniques described in further detail below. According to the present invention the system generates a substantial amount of noise that makes any attempts at surveillance indexing tracking or eavesdropping arduous computationally expensive and impractical.

In this example the user can upload the content and share a link that when selected can display the content on a recipient s computing device. For example according to the communication method of the present invention the user firstly decides to send content to an intended recipient. The content can be for example a text message an image or a video. Content can also include audio animation interactive content rich media content or any other form of information. The content is uploaded to the communication service typically via the internet according to the present invention. Uploading content can be accomplished by for example sending the content to the communication service via email using a network browser via a portable computing device using an app received from the communication service or any other known uploading techniques. Once the content is received by the communication service a link is returned from the communication service to the sender. The link is in the form of a secure URI Uniform Resource Identifier or other form of link. This link and not the original uploaded content itself can be shared with an intended recipient via any of the above techniques such as in an email text message or using a browser on a portable or other computing device.

In accordance with various embodiments the user sender or recipient may have an account with the communication service or may be an unauthenticated user. If the user has an account with the communication service the user will have special privileges with the communication service as will be described in further detail below. Receiving the link will be described below from the viewpoint of the recipient of the link. also serves to illustrate an intended recipient of the uploaded message viewing the message on the client device which happens in two steps. Once the intended recipient receives a shared link the shared link can then be selected at any subsequent time and viewed unless in some embodiments a predetermined time limit has been reached and the originally uploaded content has been destroyed. Once the link is selected an indication is sent to the communication service via the client device . The link or other selectable element when selected can enable the computing device to launch a web browser navigate to a particular web site launch an application or perform some other function and the launched application can be then used to view the content associated with the link.

As will be discussed in further detail below the communication service according to the present invention determines whether or not the URI associated with the selected link actually exists in a corresponding database. If the URI exists then the originally uploaded content is sent to the recipient s user device and the originally uploaded content can be conventionally viewed. At the same time the URI and content is deleted in the communication service database as is explained in further detail below. The uploading of the image by a first user and the viewing of the same image by a subsequent intended recipient is shown with respect to . As shown in image is uploaded on a sender s client device at a first time . A generated URI that is paired with the image is sent to a receiver s client device A. Once the URI is selected at a second time A the receiver can view the same uploaded image A on user device . If the URI does not exist however this is indicative that the intended recipient has already viewed the URI and associated content and thus a second or subsequent unintended recipient is requesting access to the link. If an unintended recipient requests access to the link then random content is returned as is also explained in further detail below.

Users including authenticated and unauthenticated actors interact with the communication system through an application programming interface API server . While any unauthenticated user may use the communication system and method of the present invention authenticated or registered users establish an account with the communication service and are given special privileges. For example an authenticated or registered user may be allowed to include special keywords and tasks or other actions associated with a posting of content. The registered user can be associated with a customer account which can include one or more profiles e.g. one or more family member profiles business profiles or other profiles where each profile can be associated with a telephone number preferences access rights and other information and may share certain account settings as may include payment information same credit card address message allotment etc. In one particular example an authenticated user may be a company conducting an advertising campaign wherein a prize is associated with the viewing of a particular posting. The data that is not directly associated with a posting can be associated with a user profile as is described in further detail below. The users can either post content or receive a response through an interface that is provided by communication system . The API server includes a delay filter for delaying submissions. In one embodiment delays of submissions and returns are monitored and determined so that detection of user submitted content cannot be successfully achieved through monitoring the average return time of responses e.g. the difference between pulling user content from a database as opposed to generating content and returning it. If these times were drastically different it would be simple to detect at scale. The API server also receives logging and tracking metrics that monitor the environmental states entropy of the system in real time. Logging and tracking metrics can include the numbers of posts to the system the number of posts that are being received by users the number of active sessions between a user and receiver of content the bandwidth usage of users submitting content nature of IP addresses used to submit content memory usage of the system number of processor cycles being used by the system state of a running entropy model of the system and average file exposure time or time until submitted content is viewed. The average file exposure time is the average length of time a file message is posted until it is viewed. This is calculated metadata that is stored in a separate table and is not deleted. The API server also receives data from the rendering engine as is described in further detail below.

The logging and tracking metrics are not limited by the specific examples listed above. Other such metrics known to those skilled in the art can be used. Each metric can be weighted and normalized or combined in any mathematical fashion desired. An aggregate score for a number of monitored metrics can be compared to an environmental activity threshold.

Once content is posted via the API server the system determines whether or not the post includes contextual information. Contextual information can include for example a list of keywords commands entered by the user purpose of the post or any other associated information that is separate from the message of the post. If contextual information is present the metadata and contextual data are extracted from the message. Metadata can be any information about the file content or message being uploaded. For instance file size file type message length language time of submission etc. Other such metadata known to those skilled in the art can be used. If contextual information is not present then only the metadata is extracted from the post. In either case a profile is then built and a cryptographically secure URI is generated and sent back to the API server . The URI is generated with an algorithm that includes a minimum length character string that has an acceptable level of entropy. Typically the generated URI is lengthy. An example of multiple different URI s are given below 

At the same time the post and metadata and contextual profile is saved in the active user content memory storage location . The length and complexity of the URI is only limited by the constraints of the software and hardware systems of the platform or technology in which the URI is used.

Once the URI is received and selected by a receiving user the system determines if the URI exists by for example interrogating an index of a database. In the system of the present invention a single database or multiple databases and indices may be used. It may be more convenient to store content by content type in various specific databases. If the URI does exist the previously stored content is retrieved and returned to the API server . If the URI does not exist the system determines whether or not the user content has recently existed. If the user content has recently existed then the metadata and contextual profile is pulled from the short term record of metadata memory location and sent to the content selection service . If the user content has not recently existed then this information is also communicated to the content selection service . The content selection service also receives information from a performance analytics engine . The performance analytics engine monitors the environmental logging and tracking metrics previously described.

The output of the content selection service is sent to a rendering engine . The rendering engine combines information from the performance analytics of the system and contextual and profile metadata.

The output of the rendering engine is in communication with a querying index that determines whether or not metadata and contextual profile exists for a previously submitted resource. If a profile exists then the querying index searches a contextual profile and metadata index that is stored in a persistent storage location .

If a profile does not exist the system of the present invention calculates a system preference based on live data from the performance analytics engine and builds a basic profile. This situation would occur if there were no previously submitted data for a given resource as well as activity where malign actors are continuously demanding access to a given resource. A basic profile and metadata index is then built and is in communication with the content fetching and monitoring service as before. An example of a basic profile that would be created in this situation would be similar to data type text minimum length n characters content type random. This would inform the system to generate random strings of n length and return to the user. The monitoring service acts as a through put monitor and garbage collector for content that is used multiple times.

The contextual profile and metadata index is in communication with a content fetching and monitoring service that is in turn in communication with persistence image text or video storage locations. These memory locations store the random content that is retrieved for subsequent selections of the URI as previously described. Other storage locations can also be used as required. For one example audio and large file storage locations can also be used in addition to the image text and video storage locations.

A content generation service is used to generate content including randomization of text generation of images or gifs generation of fake or dummy messages as well as low fidelity information that can be returned when the system is under stress. The information generated by the content generation service is classified for a contextual profile and metadata comparison and returned to the content fetching and monitoring service .

A content capture service is used to obtain data through for example the Internet. The content capture service includes methods for crawling the World Wide Web obtaining access to public and free APIs advertisements and other sources of content.

System also includes a user content deletion service that deletes both the user posted content and the associated URI as well as metadata associated with the post. The user content deletion service is a service that is triggered by the act of executing a select statement on a database record. The user content deletion service also can delete posted content and the associated URI based on expiration of a predetermined time period as well as other means determined by the system. The content deletion service is thus in communication with both the active user content memory storage location and the short term record of metadata memory location .

In accordance with various embodiments the rendering engine of the present invention may be performed by any number of server computing devices desktop computing devices mainframe computers and other hardware firmware or software or virtual machines. Each individual device may implement one or more of the components of the rendering engine . For example rendering engine can include various modules and components combined on a single device or multiple instances of a single module or component. In some embodiments the features and services provided by rendering engine can be implemented as web services consumable via a communication network. In other embodiments the rendering engine is provided by one or more virtual machines implemented in a hosted computing environment which can be seen for example in . A hosted computing environment can include one or more rapidly provisioned and released computing resources which computing resources may include computing networking and or storage devices. The hosted computing environment may also be referred to as a cloud computing environment. Aspects of the rendering engine may be absorbed into and performed by the user portable devices .

When the message including the highlighted text is sent the highlighted text is then either recognized by the messaging service used or is sent through an interface or otherwise communicated to the communication service of the present invention. Once the text is recognized by the messaging service or communication service of the present invention a URI or URL is used to replace text of document C as is shown in . The URI can be generated automatically by the messaging service if the messaging includes the URI generator portion or other such portion of the communication method of the present invention. In another example the highlighted portion of the message can be cropped or otherwise removed from the message and provided to the communication service. Upon receiving the message the communication service can process the message in accordance with the embodiments described herein and provide a link to the message service. The message service can insert the link into the message. For example the link can be inserted where the highlighted text would have been amended at the end of the message sent in a separate message etc. In the situation where the link is appended at the end of the message or sent in another message a graphical element can be placed in the position of the highlighted text. Alternatively the URI can be generated by the communication service and returned to the user through a second email or directly through a user interface. Once the URI replaces text the message is ready for the user to share. Once the message with the replaced text is shared a recipient of the message will see a message that is very similar to the one shown in . Once the recipient selects the URI the original text will be sent either into the message being viewed or through other means such as a second email or message a pop up message an overlay that includes the message etc. consistent with the teachings of the communication method of the present invention as set forth herein.

The method of the present invention as illustrated with respect to flow chart assures that subsequent selections of a unique URI will in some circumstances return thematically similar content to content that has been recently deleted. For example a first selection of a URI successfully finds content in the system database which is returned. The URI is then removed from the database. On the next attempt to call the same URI no record is found in the database and there is no content to be returned. According to the method of the present invention while the URI no longer exists the method of the present invention can determine that the URI was in fact recently used and can then pull any stored metadata and contextual profiles to use for querying the index of the database to return thematically similar content or content derived from or dictated by the submitter of the initial content submission.

Examples of client devices described herein for use in posting or receiving content can include personal computers cell phones handheld messaging devices laptop computers set top boxes personal data assistants electronic book readers and the like. The list of client devices is not exhaustive and other such devices are known to those skilled in the art for posting or receiving content.

The network such as network described herein can include any appropriate network including an intranet the Internet a cellular network a local area network or any other such network or combination thereof. Components used for such a system can depend at least in part upon the type of network and or environment selected. Protocols and components for communicating via such a network are well known and will not be discussed herein in detail. Communication over the network can be enabled via wired or wireless connections and combinations thereof. In this example the network includes the Internet as the environment includes a Web server for receiving requests and serving content in response thereto although for other networks an alternative device serving a similar purpose could be used as would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art.

Various embodiments discussed or suggested herein can be implemented in a wide variety of operating environments which in some cases can include one or more user computers computing devices or processing devices which can be used to operate any of a number of applications. User or client devices can include any of a number of general purpose personal computers such as desktop or laptop computers running a standard operating system as well as cellular wireless and handheld devices running mobile software and capable of supporting a number of networking and messaging protocols. Such a system also can include a number of workstations running any of a variety of commercially available operating systems and other known applications for purposes such as development and database management. These devices also can include other electronic devices such as dummy terminals thin clients gaming systems and other devices capable of communicating via a network.

Most embodiments utilize at least one network that would be familiar to those skilled in the art for supporting communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols such as TCP IP FTP UPnP NFS and CIFS. The network can be for example a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network an infrared network a wireless network and any combination thereof.

In embodiments utilizing a Web server the Web server can run any of a variety of server or mid tier applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers data servers Java servers and business application servers. The server s also may be capable of executing programs or scripts in response to requests from user devices such as by executing one or more Web applications that may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java JavaScript C C or C or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations thereof. The server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase and IBM .

The environment can include a variety of data stores and other memory and storage media as discussed above. These can reside in a variety of locations such as on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers or remote from any or all of the computers across the network. In a particular set of embodiments the information may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary tiles for performing the functions attributed to the computers servers or other network devices may be stored locally and or remotely as appropriate. Where a system includes computerized devices each such device can include hardware elements that may be electrically coupled via a bus the elements including for example at least one central processing unit CPU at least one input device e.g. a mouse keyboard controller touch screen or keypad and at least one output device e.g. a display device printer or speaker . Such a system may also include one or more storage devices such as disk drives optical storage devices and solid state storage devices such as random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM as well as removable media devices memory cards flash cards etc.

Such devices also can include a computer readable storage media reader a communications device e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device etc. and working memory as described above. The computer readable storage media reader can be connected with or configured to receive a computer readable storage medium representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices as well as storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information. The system and various devices also typically will include a number of software applications modules services or other elements located within at least one working memory device including an operating system and application programs such as a client application or Web browser. It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a system device. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

