---

title: Incident light sensor on autonomous vehicle
abstract: An incident light meter on an autonomous vehicle receives ambient light and outputs an incident light measurement in response the ambient light. One or more image sensors of the autonomous vehicle image the environment of the autonomous vehicle. An exposure setting is generated at least in part on the incident light measurement. The one or more image sensors capture a digital image at the exposure setting.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09454154&OS=09454154&RS=09454154
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09454154
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160307
---
Autonomous vehicles including ground based autonomous vehicles and unmanned aerial vehicles UAVs are developed for use in a variety of contexts. Autonomous vehicles are being used in retail and commercial contexts for example. An autonomous vehicle is generally able to sense its environment and navigate in that environment without human input. Some autonomous vehicles include sensors for navigation purposes.

In the following description various embodiments will be described. For purposes of explanation specific configurations and details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will also be apparent to one skilled in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without the specific details. Furthermore well known features may be omitted or simplified in order not to obscure the embodiment being described.

Systems and methods of using an incident light meter on an autonomous vehicle to aid in imaging are described herein. Example autonomous vehicles include ground based autonomous vehicles and unmanned aerial vehicles UAVs . An incident light sensor on the autonomous vehicle allows for more accurate exposure setting of cameras of the autonomous vehicle. This may help improve the picture quality captured by the camera s of the autonomous vehicle.

Conventionally exposure settings auto exposure for cameras are determined using through the lens metering commonly known as TTL. However TTL metering is based on reflected light. In some environments TTL metering may lead to undesirable results. For example in a snowy environment TTL metering results in exposure settings that yield an image that is approximately grey.

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the disclosure an incident light measurement is taken by an incident light meter on an autonomous vehicle. An exposure setting is determined based at least in part on the incident light measurement. The cameras of the autonomous vehicle may capture image s at the exposure setting.

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the disclosure a UAV includes an incident light meter and one or more cameras. The UAV is using the cameras to assist in navigation. The UAV may be navigating to a location to drop off a package that a user ordered for example. Using the incident light meter to generate exposure settings for the camera s of the UAV allows the UAV to better image the environment surrounding the UAV and thus determine more accurately where to drop off the package for the user. Additionally using an incident light meter may generate a suitable exposure setting for the cameras faster and or utilize fewer processor resources than conventional auto exposure processes. In selected embodiments if a suitable exposure setting cannot be obtained the UAV may be re positioned to an alternative location where the incident light measurement may allow an improved exposure setting to be obtained.

Incident light meter includes a photosensitive element to measure the incident visible light of an ambient environment. In one embodiment the photosensitive element includes a photodiode. A visible light filter that passes visible light while blocking non visible light e.g. ultraviolet near infrared and infrared may be placed over the photosensitive element so that only visible light is measured. In one embodiment a filter is not placed over photosensitive element and the photosensitive element is exposed to ultraviolet visible near infrared and infrared light. Diffusive dome may also be included in incident light meter to receive and diffuse the incident visible light to contribute to more accurate readings for incident light meter . Photosensitive element generates a signal corresponding to the intensity of the incident light . That signal may be filtered by filter block and amplified by amplifier . The amplified analog signal may be outputted from the incident light meter to management module as incident light measurement . Alternatively the amplified analog signal may be converted to a digital value by an ADC analog to digital converter of the incident light meter . The digital value may then be converted to a measurement value such as lux which is a unit of illuminance. The lux measurement value may then be outputted as a digital value to management module as incident light measurement in some implementations. Incident light meter may output its incident light measurement periodically e.g. every 10 ms or it may output incident light measurement on request. When incident light measurement is outputted on request management module may send a request command to incident light meter to receive incident light measurement .

Management module receives the incident light measurement from incident light meter . In implementations where incident light measurement is received by management module as an analog signal management module may have an on board ADC to convert the analog signal to a digital value. In one implementation where incident light measurement is a digital value the incident light measurement is sent to management module via a serial bus. Management module may include a processing logic such as a processor microprocessor FPGA or otherwise. Management module may include multiple processing cores. Management module is communicatively coupled to memory in . In one embodiment management module includes on board memory. Computer executable instruction software or firmware implementations of the management module may include computer executable or machine executable instructions written in any suitable programming language to perform the various functions described herein. Memory may store program instructions that are loadable and executable on management module . Memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory or other memory .

Management module is communicatively coupled to one or more cameras . In the illustrated embodiment management module is communicatively coupled to three cameras A B and C. However management module may be communicatively coupled to many more cameras than are illustrated in . Management module generates an exposure setting for cameras based at least in part on receiving incident light measurement . Management module may access a lookup table that has exposure values that correspond to incident light measurement values for example. Management module may also perform a calculation to generate the exposure setting.

Example exposure settings include gain a.k.a. ISO shutter speed a.k.a. exposure period for digital shutters and aperture. A high incident light measurement value e.g. 100 000 lux may correspond with a fast shutter speed e.g. 5 ms while a low incident light measurement value e.g. 5 lux may correspond with a slow shutter speed e.g. 250 ms . Similarly a high incident light measurement value may correspond with a low gain while a low incident light measurement value may correspond with a high gain. For aperture a large aperture may correspond with a low incident light measurement value while a small aperture may correspond with a high incident light measurement value.

Once the exposure setting is generated by management module it can be sent to one or more cameras as exposure setting . In one implementation exposure setting is sent to every camera coupled to management module . In one implementation exposure setting is only sent to select cameras coupled to management module . Cameras may each include a digital image sensor. The digital image sensor in cameras may be a CMOS Complimentary Metal Oxide Semiconductor image sensor. The digital image sensor in cameras may be a CCD charge coupled device . Cameras may utilize a digital shutter e.g. rolling shutter or global shutter or utilize a mechanical shutter. The digital image captured by the camera at the exposure setting is sent to management module . Management module may analyze the image and adjust a propulsion system of an autonomous vehicle in response to analyzing the digital image. In one embodiment the digital image includes a target landing area and the management module adjusts the propulsion system of a UAV to center the target landing area under the camera that captured the digital image at the exposure setting. In management module sends propulsion commands to propulsion driver . In one embodiment propulsion driver drives electric motors that rotate propellers of a UAV.

As shown in the UAV may also include a retaining system . The retaining system may be configured to retain a payload which may be a package for delivering to a user. The UAV may deliver the payload by fully landing on the ground and releasing the retaining system . Cameras may be positioned on top cover or on the frame of UAV . Although not shown one or more cameras may be mounted as down ward looking cameras to identify a landing zone for payload while UAV is in flight.

Further UAV includes propulsion system . In some examples the propulsion system may include rotary blades or otherwise be a propeller based system. The propulsion driver of may drive electric motors that rotate propellers of the propulsion system in one embodiment. In some examples the propulsion system may include or be associated with one or more fixed wings. As illustrated in the propulsion system may include a plurality of propeller devices a few of which A F are shown in this view. Each propeller device may include one propeller a motor wiring a balance system a control mechanism and other features to enable flight. In some examples the propulsion system may operate at least partially under the control of the management system . In some examples the propulsion system may be configured to adjust itself without receiving instructions from the management system . Thus the propulsion system may operate semi autonomously or autonomously. The propulsion system may enable multi directional flight of the UAV e.g. by adjusting each propeller device individually . The UAV may also include landing structure . The landing structure may be adequately rigid to support the UAV and the payload . The landing structure may include a plurality of elongated legs which may enable the UAV to land on and take off from a variety of different surfaces. The plurality of systems subsystems and structures of the UAV may be connected via frame . The frame may be constructed of a rigid material and be capable of receiving via different connections the variety of systems sub systems and structures. For example the landing structure may be disposed below the frame and in some examples may be formed from the same material and or same piece of material as the frame . The propulsion system may be disposed radially around a perimeter of the frame or otherwise distributed around the frame .

As UAV navigates through an environment the incident light falling on a scene that is being imaged by cameras of UAV may change. Cloud s may block the sun and drastically reduce the incident light incident on the environment. Additionally navigating beside or under an obstacle may also block the sun from shining directly on a scene imaged by UAV which may reduce the incident light of the scene. Including an incident light meter on UAV to set the exposure settings of cameras will render more accurate colors and more accurately capture the highlights and shadows of the imaged scene. Where navigation of UAV is concerned capturing more accurate images allows for better identification of a target landing zone for example. When the incident light changes incident light meter may also quickly determine this and pass the incident light measurement to management module for distribution to cameras . In contrast conventional auto exposure algorithms that are based on reflected light may be confused by sudden light changes and thus take longer in homing in on an exposure setting for a camera. Furthermore having each camera capture images at the same exposure may save processing steps when multiple images are analyzed for navigation purposes.

In one example a user may have operated a computing device to access a network based resource to order an item. Based on this order the item may be packaged at a facility and loaded on the UAV . The UAV may be remotely controlled or autonomously operated to fly the package from the facility to the location deliver the package and return to the facility or to some other location. These operations of the UAV may represent an example mission that the UAV may be deployed to perform.

Upon arrival to the location e.g. to the exact location or to a vicinity thereof the UAV may determine a delivery surface to deliver the package . illustrates the delivery surface as a surface of a backyard of the user s dwelling. However the embodiments described herein are not limited as such and may similarly apply to other types of surfaces and or other associations to location .

Various techniques may be used to determine the surface . In one example technique data about the surface such as spatial coordinates may be provided to the UAV e.g. transmitted thereto and stored thereat prior to leaving the facility on the way to the location upon or after arrival to the location . In another example technique this data may be generated based on sensors of the UAV . For instance the UAV may be equipped with a number of sensors such as imaging motion radio frequency and or other sensors and one or more processing units to sense and process environmental data associated with the location and generate the data about the surface . Of course a combination of both example techniques may be used. Cameras are examples of sensors that may be used to determine an appropriate landing area on surface .

The data about the surface whether received from a remote source and or locally generated by the UAV may include identifiers of for example an obstacle when such obstacle and introduce may exist on or in the vicinity of the surface . The obstacle may represent an object that may be static such as a tree or fence or that may be moving such as a wind turbine.

In process block an incident light measurement is read with an incident light meter e.g. incident light meter . An exposure setting is determined based at least in part on the incident light measurement in process block . Processing logic e.g. management module may determine the exposure setting in one implementation. Determining the exposure setting may include accessing a lookup table that has exposure values that correspond to incident light measurement values for example. Alternatively the incident light measurement may be inputted into an equation and a calculation may be performed to generate the exposure setting.

In process block a digital image is captured by at least one digital image sensor of the autonomous vehicle. In one example the autonomous vehicle includes a plurality of digital image sensors but not all of the digital image sensors receive the exposure setting. In one example processing logic sends the exposure setting to a first portion of the image sensors in the plurality of image sensors but not to a remaining portion of the image sensors in the plurality of digital image sensors.

In process block a propulsion system is adjusted based at least in part on the at least one digital image captured at the exposure setting. The propulsion system may also be adjusted based at least in part on a GPS coordinate for example. If the autonomous vehicle is a ground based vehicle adjusting the propulsion system may include increasing or decreasing the speed of the wheels or tread tracks of the autonomous vehicle. Adjusting the propulsion system may also include steering the wheels or tread tracks of a ground based autonomous vehicle. If the autonomous vehicle is a UAV adjusting the propulsion system may include adjusting a rotation speed of one or more propellers of the propulsion system.

In one embodiment processing logic e.g. management module may analyze the digital image and adjust the propulsion system of an autonomous vehicle in response to analyzing the digital image. In one embodiment the digital image includes a target landing area and the processing logic adjusts the propulsion system of a UAV to center the target landing area under a camera that captured the digital image at the exposure setting.

Turning next to in this figure is illustrated an example schematic architecture for using UAV for delivering packages according to at least one example. The architecture may include a management module . The management module may be included as part of an electronic marketplace not shown and interface with purchase and delivery services of the electronic marketplace. In this manner the management module may coordinate delivery of items via UAVs such as UAV to customers of the electronic marketplace. The UAV is an example of the UAV discussed previously. In some examples the management module may be a stand alone service operated on its own or in connection with an electronic marketplace. In either example the management module may be in communication with the UAV via one or more network s hereinafter the network . The network may include any one or a combination of many different types of networks such as cable networks the Internet wireless networks cellular networks radio networks and other private and or public networks. Thus the management module may be configured to provide back end control of the UAV prior to during and after completion of its delivery plan. As discussed previously in some examples the UAV may be configured to accomplish its delivery plan e.g. deliver its payload with little to no communication with the management module .

User devices N hereinafter the user device may also be in communication with the management module and the UAV via the network . The user device may be operable by one or more human users hereinafter the human user to access the management module or an electronic marketplace and the UAV via the network . The user device may be any suitable device capable of communicating with the network . For example the user device may be any suitable computing device such as but not limited to a mobile phone a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop computer a thin client device a tablet PC a desktop computer a set top box or other computing device. In some examples the user device may be in communication with the management module via one or more web servers constituting an electronic marketplace not shown connected to the network and associated with the management module .

Turning now to the details of the UAV UAV may include an onboard computer including at least one memory and one or more processing units or processor s . The processor s may serve as management module and memory may serve as memory in some embodiments. The processor s may be implemented as appropriate in hardware computer executable instructions software firmware or combinations thereof. Computer executable instruction software or firmware implementations of the processor s may include computer executable or machine executable instructions written in any suitable programming language to perform the various functions described. The memory may include more than one memory and may be distributed throughout the onboard computer . The memory may store program instructions e.g. UAV management module that are loadable and executable on the processor s as well as data generated during the execution of these programs. Depending on the configuration and type of memory including the UAV management module the memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory or other memory . The UAV management module may also include additional removable storage and or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical disks and or tape storage. The disk drives and their associated computer readable media may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing devices. In some implementations the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or ROM. Turning to the contents of the memory in more detail the memory may include an operating system and one or more application programs modules or services for implementing the features disclosed herein including at least the UAV management module .

In some examples the onboard computer may also include additional storage which may include removable storage and or non removable storage. The additional storage may include but is not limited to magnetic storage optical disks and or tape storage. The disk drives and their associated computer readable media may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing devices.

The memory and the additional storage both removable and non removable are examples of computer readable storage media. For example computer readable storage media may include volatile or non volatile removable or non removable media implemented in any suitable method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. As used herein modules may refer to programming modules executed by computing systems e.g. processors that are part of the onboard computer . The modules of the onboard computer may include one or more components. The onboard computer may also include input output I O device s and or ports such as for enabling connection with a keyboard a mouse a pen a voice input device a touch input device a display speakers a printer or other I O device. The I O device s may enable communication with the other systems of the UAV e.g. other parts of the control system power system communication system navigation system propulsion system and the retaining system .

The onboard computer may also include data store . The data store may include one or more databases data structures or the like for storing and or retaining information associated with the UAV . In some examples the data store may include databases such as customer information database and landing zone database . Within the customer information database may be stored any suitable customer information that may be used by the UAV in implementing and or affecting its delivery plan. For example the customer information database may include profile characteristics for the human user . The profile characteristics may include a shipping address. The landing zone database may store suitable landing zones or drop off zones associated with a particular user. The landing zone database may include GPS coordinates and or images of landing zones associated with a particular user.

Turning now to the details of the user device . The user device may be used by the human user for interacting with the management module . The user device may therefore include a memory a processor a user interface a web service application and any other suitable feature to enable communication with the features of architecture . The web service application may be in the form of a web browser an application programming interface API virtual computing instance or other suitable application. In some examples when the management module is part of or shares an association with an electronic marketplace the user device may be used by the human user for procuring one or more items from the electronic marketplace. The human user may request delivery of the purchased item s using the UAV or the management module may coordinate such delivery on its own.

The management module may include one or more service provider computers perhaps arranged in a cluster of servers or as a server farm and may host web service applications. These servers may be configured to host a website or combination of websites viewable via the user device . The management module may include at least one memory and one or more processing units or processor s . The processor s may be implemented as appropriate in hardware computer executable instructions software firmware or combinations thereof. Computer executable instruction software or firmware implementations of the processor s may include computer executable or machine executable instructions written in any suitable programming language to perform the various functions described. The memory may include more than one memory and may be distributed throughout the management module . The memory may store program instructions e.g. server management module that are loadable and executable on the processor s as well as data generated during the execution of these programs. Depending on the configuration and type of memory including the server management module the memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory or other memory . The management module may also include additional removable storage and or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical disks and or tape storage. The disk drives and their associated computer readable media may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing devices. In some implementations the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or ROM. Turning to the contents of the memory in more detail the memory may include an operating system and one or more application programs modules or services for implementing the features disclosed herein including at least the server management module . The server management module in some examples may function similarly to the UAV management module . For example when the UAV is in network communication with the management module the UAV may receive at least some instructions from the management module as the server management module is executed by the processors . In some examples the UAV executes the UAV management module to operate independent of the management module .

In some examples the management module may also include additional storage which may include removable storage and or non removable storage. The additional storage may include but is not limited to magnetic storage optical disks and or tape storage. The disk drives and their associated computer readable media may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing devices.

The memory and the additional storage both removable and non removable are examples of computer readable storage media. For example computer readable storage media may include volatile or non volatile removable or non removable media implemented in any suitable method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. As used herein modules may refer to programming modules executed by computing systems e.g. processors that are part of the management module . The modules of the management module may include one or more components. The management module may also include input output I O device s and or ports such as for enabling connection with a keyboard a mouse a pen a voice input device a touch input device a display speakers a printer or other I O device.

In some examples the management module may include a user interface . The user interface may be utilized by an operator or other authorized user to access portions of the management module . In some examples the user interface may include a graphical user interface web based applications programmatic interfaces such as application programming interfaces APIs or other user interface configurations. The management module may also include data store . The data store may include one or more databases data structures or the like for storing and or retaining information associated with the management module . The data store may include databases such as customer information database and landing zone database . The customer information database and the landing zone database may include similar information as the customer information database and the landing zone database of the onboard computer . The management module may store a larger amount of information in the data store than the onboard computer is capable of storing in the data store . Thus in some examples at least a portion of the information from the databases in the data store is copied to the databases of the data store e.g. periodically occasionally in connection with an event or otherwise. In this manner the data store may have up to date information without having to maintain the databases. In some examples this information may be transferred as part of a delivery plan prior to the UAV beginning a delivery mission.

Turning next to the details of the UAV management module stored in the memory of the onboard computer in example schematic device is illustrated including UAV management module . The UAV management module is an example of the UAV management module and the server management module . The UAV management module will be described from the reference point of an example UAV but its function is not limited to controlling a UAV. The UAV management module may be configured to manage one or more sub modules components and or services directed to embodiments disclosed herein. In some examples the UAV management module may include a communication component a navigation component and a delivery component . While these modules and components are illustrated in and will be described as performing discrete tasks it is understood that illustrates example configurations and other configurations performing other tasks and or similar tasks as those described herein may be implemented according to the techniques described herein. Other modules not shown may perform the same tasks as the UAV management module or other tasks and may be implemented in a similar fashion or according to other configurations. Generally the communication component may be configured to manage communications between UAVs and a control service between UAVs and user devices between multiple UAVs and or any other communications. The navigation component may be configured to implement at least portions of the delivery plan relating to navigation. For example the navigation component may calculate adjust receive or determine coarse positioning or navigation instructions and fine positioning or navigation instructions. This may include in some examples determining trajectory adjustments to a flight path of a UAV. The delivery component may be configured to implement at least portions of the delivery plan relating to item delivery. For example the delivery component may be configured to verify a human user s identity and once verified execute delivery of items.

The illustrative environment includes at least one application server and a data store . It should be understood that there can be several application servers layers or other elements processes or components which may be chained or otherwise configured which can interact to perform tasks such as obtaining data from an appropriate data store. As used herein the term data store refers to any suitable device or combination of devices capable of storing accessing and retrieving data which may include any suitable combination and number of data servers databases data storage devices and data storage media in any suitable standard distributed or clustered environment. The application server can include any appropriate hardware and software for integrating with the data store as needed to execute aspects of one or more applications for the client device handling a majority of the data access and business logic for an application. The application server provides access control services in cooperation with the data store and is able to generate content such as text graphics audio and or video to be transferred to the user which may be served to the user by the Web server in the form of HyperText Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or another appropriate structured language in this example. The handling of all requests and responses as well as the delivery of content between the electronic client device and the application server can be handled by the Web server. It should be understood that the Web and application servers are not required and are merely example components as structured code discussed herein can be executed on any appropriate device or host machine as discussed elsewhere herein.

The data store can include several separate data tables databases or other data storage mechanisms and media for storing data relating to a particular aspect. For example the data store illustrated includes mechanisms for storing production data and user information which can be used to serve content for the production side. The data store also is shown to include a mechanism for storing log data which can be used for reporting analysis or other such purposes. It should be understood that there can be many other aspects that may need to be stored in the data store such as for page image information and to access right information which can be stored in any of the above listed mechanisms as appropriate or in additional mechanisms in the data store . The data store is operable through logic associated therewith to receive instructions from the application server and obtain update or otherwise process data in response thereto. In some examples a user might submit a search request for a certain type of item. In this case the data store might access the user information to verify the identity of the user and can access the catalog detail information to obtain information about items of that type. The information then can be returned to the user such as in a results listing on a Web page that the user is able to view via a browser on the electronic client device . Information for a particular item of interest can be viewed in a dedicated page or window of the browser.

Each server typically will include an operating system that provides executable program instructions for the general administration and operation of that server and typically will include a computer readable storage medium e.g. a hard disk random access memory read only memory etc. storing instructions that when executed by a processor of the server allow the server to perform its intended functions. Suitable implementations for the operating system and general functionality of the servers are known or commercially available and are readily implemented by persons having ordinary skill in the art particularly in light of the disclosure herein.

The environment in one embodiment is a distributed computing environment utilizing several computer systems and components that are interconnected via communication links using one or more computer networks or direct connections. However it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that such a system could operate equally well in a system having fewer or a greater number of components than are illustrated in . Thus the depiction of the environment in should be taken as being illustrative in nature and not limiting to the scope of the disclosure.

The various embodiments further can be implemented in a wide variety of operating environments which in some cases can include one or more user computers computing devices or processing devices which can be used to operate any of a number of suitable applications. User or client devices can include any suitable number of general purpose personal computers such as desktop or laptop computers running a standard operating system as well as cellular wireless and handheld devices running mobile software and capable of supporting a number of networking and messaging protocols. Such a system also can include a number of workstations running any of a variety of commercially available operating systems and other known applications for purposes such as development and database management. These devices also can include other electronic devices such as dummy terminals thin clients gaming systems and other devices capable of communicating via a network.

Most embodiments utilize at least one network that would be familiar to those skilled in the art for supporting communications using any of a variety of suitable commercially available protocols such as Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP Open System Interconnection OSI File Transfer Protocol FTP Universal Plug and Play UpnP Network File System NFS Common Internet File System CIFS and AppleTalk. The network can be for example a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network an infrared network a wireless network and any suitable combination thereof.

In embodiments utilizing a Web server the Web server can run any of a variety of server or mid tier applications including Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP servers FTP servers Common Gateway Interface CGI servers data servers Java servers and business application servers. The server s also may be capable of executing programs or scripts in response to requests from user devices such as by executing one or more Web applications that may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations thereof. The server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase and IBM .

The environment can include a variety of data stores and other memory and storage media as discussed above. These can reside in a variety of locations such as on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers or remote from any or all of the computers across the network. In a particular set of embodiments the information may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers servers or other network devices may be stored locally and or remotely as appropriate. Where a system includes computerized devices each such device can include hardware elements that may be electrically coupled via a bus the elements including for example at least one central processing unit CPU at least one input device e.g. a mouse keyboard controller touch screen or keypad and at least one output device e.g. a display device printer or speaker . Such a system may also include one or more storage devices such as disk drives optical storage devices and solid state storage devices such as random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM as well as removable media devices memory cards flash cards etc.

Such devices also can include a computer readable storage media reader a communications device e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device etc. and working memory as described above. The computer readable storage media reader can be connected with or configured to receive a computer readable storage medium representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices as well as storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information. The system and various devices also typically will include a number of software applications modules services or other elements located within at least one working memory device including an operating system and application programs such as a client application or Web browser. It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any suitable method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any suitable medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a system device. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the disclosure as set forth in the claims.

Other variations are within the spirit of the present disclosure. Thus while the disclosed techniques are susceptible to various modifications and alternative constructions certain illustrated embodiments thereof are shown in the drawings and have been described above in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intention to limit the disclosure to the specific form or forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications alternative constructions and equivalents falling within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined in the appended claims.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the disclosed embodiments especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. The term connected is to be construed as partly or wholly contained within attached to or joined together even if there is something intervening. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate embodiments of the disclosure and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the disclosure unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the disclosure.

Disjunctive language such as the phrase at least one of X Y or Z unless specifically stated otherwise is intended to be understood within the context as used in general to present that an item term etc. may be either X Y or Z or any combination thereof e.g. X Y and or Z . Thus such disjunctive language is not generally intended to and should not imply that certain embodiments require at least one of X at least one of Y or at least one of Z to each be present.

Preferred embodiments of this disclosure are described herein including the best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the disclosure. Variations of those preferred embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate and the inventors intend for the disclosure to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly this disclosure includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the disclosure unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in its entirety herein.

