---

title: System for collective network of augmented reality users
abstract: Embodiments of the invention provide for using video analysis, such as augmented reality or the like to assist a group of users to utilize mobile devices for creating a collective network environment of users that identifies objects in which one or more users in a group of users may be interested, and notifies the one or more users of information associated with the object. A collective network comprises a group of users that each have a mobile device that contains or is otherwise operatively coupled to a data capture device. For example, the mobile device may be a mobile phone that is capable of taking video with a camera device. A user in the collective network may capture video on his mobile device, and an application can identify the object in the video and provide interested users in the collective network with information about the object.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09519923&OS=09519923&RS=09519923
owner: BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
number: 09519923
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160216
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 342 059 filed Jan. 1 2012 which in turn claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 450 213 filed Mar. 8 2011 entitled Real Time Video Image Analysis Applications for Commerce Activity and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 478 417 filed Apr. 22 2011 entitled Collective Network of Augmented Reality Users the entirety of which are both incorporated herein by reference.

Modern handheld mobile devices such as smart phones or the like combine multiple technologies to provide the user with a vast array of capabilities. For example many smart phones are equipped with significant processing power sophisticated multi tasking operating systems and high bandwidth Internet connection capabilities. Moreover such devices often have additional features that are becoming increasingly more common and standardized. Such features include but are not limited to location determining devices such as Global Positioning System GPS devices sensor devices such as accelerometers and high resolution video cameras.

As the hardware capabilities of such mobile devices have increased so too have the applications i.e. software that rely on the hardware advances. One such example of innovative software is a category known as augmented reality AR or more generally referred to as mediated reality. One such example of an AR application platform is Layar available from Layar Amsterdam the Netherlands.

The Layar platform technology analyzes location data compass direction data and the like in combination with information related to the objects locations or the like in the video stream to create browse able hot spots or tags that are superimposed on the mobile device display resulting in an experience described as reality browsing .

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Generally methods apparatus systems and computer program products are described herein that provide for using real time video analysis such as AR or the like to assist the user or a group of users to utilize mobile devices for creating a collective network environment of users that identifies objects in which one or more users in a group of users is interested and notifies one or more users of information associated with the object. A collective network comprises a group of users that each have a mobile device that contains or is otherwise coupled to a data capture device. For example the mobile device may be a mobile phone that is capable of taking video with a camera device. A user in the collective network may capture real time video on his mobile device utilizing an image capture device and during the data capture or at a time thereafter AR analysis is performed on the video or stills in the video to identify the object in the video.

Real time vision object recognition analysis is used to identify objects such as but not limited to logos artwork products locations buildings writing barcodes good or service products identifiers people and other features that were captured in the video stream and thereafter match the objects to data associated with each. The data about the objects can be used to identify the other users in the collective network who might be interested in receiving information such as product information pricing information location information etc. about the same or similar object as the object captured in the video. Therefore any user identified in the collective network that might be interested in the same or similar object may receive a notification about the object. The notification may tell the user where to get the object or it may allow the user to purchase the object. The financial accounts of the users in the collective network may be linked in such a way that the first user capturing the object or the second user receiving the notification of the object may purchase the object immediately or at a later point in time with the first user s funds the second user s funds on credit from the financial institution etc. Thereafter the transaction can be settled between the accounts of the first user second user financial institution and or merchant.

In specific embodiments the data that is used to match objects captured from a first user to a second user is at least in part specific to financial institutions such as customer financial behavior history customer purchase power transaction history and the like. In this regard many of the embodiments herein disclosed leverage financial institution data that is specific to a financial institution of the users when providing information to the users in connection with real time video stream captured by a user and the associated video analysis.

Embodiments of the present invention assist the one or more users in one or more collective networks to identify more objects using data capture devices and AR analysis and associate data to the objects in which the one or more users are interested over a wider range than that which a single user could indentify on his own.

Embodiments of the invention comprise a method system or computer program product for receiving data about a first object wherein the data about the first object is recognized through the use of a first data capture device operatively coupled to a first mobile device of a first user determining if a second user within one or more collective networks of users is interested in a second object based on the data about the first object wherein a collective network of users is a group of one or more users that have the ability to recognize data about objects through the use of data capture devices operatively coupled to mobile devices of the users and presenting a notification about the second object to a second mobile device of the second user when it is determined that the second user is interested in the second object.

In further accord with embodiments of the invention determining if the second user within the collective network of users is interested in the object further comprises determining the first user from which the data about the object was received.

In another embodiment of the invention determining if the second user within the collective network of users is interested in the object further comprises determining the one or more collective networks to which the first user belongs.

In yet another embodiment of the invention determining if the second user within the collective network of users is interested in the object further comprises determining the one or more users that belong to the one or more collective networks.

In still another embodiment of the invention determining if the second user within the collective network of users is interested in the object further comprises comparing the data received about the first object to a group of one or more objects associated with the one or more users that belong to the one or more collective networks.

In further accord with embodiments of the invention the group of one or more objects associated with the one or more users is a wish list shopping list or object transaction history associated with the one or more users.

In yet another embodiment of the invention the second object is similar to or related to the first object.

In still another embodiment of the invention the invention further comprises receiving a request from the first user or the second user to create the collective network.

In further accord with embodiments of the invention the invention further comprises receiving a request from the first user or the second user to create a first user profile or a second user profile for the collective network.

In another embodiment of the invention the invention further comprises receiving a request to link and authenticate a first user profile or a second user profile to an account of the first user or the second user at a financial institution.

In yet another embodiment of the invention the invention further comprises receiving a request to link one or more objects to a first user profile or a second user profile.

In still another embodiment of the invention the invention further comprises receiving a request to invite the one or more users to join the collective network.

In further accord with embodiments of the invention the invention further comprises receiving a request to allow the one or more users to join the collective network.

In another embodiment of the invention presenting a notification about the second object to a second mobile device of the second user further comprises determining if the second user wants to be notified of objects identified by the one or more users in the one or more collective networks.

In yet another embodiment of the invention presenting a notification about the second object to a second mobile device of the second user further comprises determining a type of notification to present to the second user.

In still another embodiment of the invention the invention further comprises receiving a response from the second user relating to action that the second user wants to take.

In further accord with an embodiment of the invention the invention further comprises posting and settling the accounts of the first user the second user a financial institution or a merchant after the second user makes a purchase of the first object or the second object.

To the accomplishment the foregoing and the related ends the one or more embodiments comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth detail certain illustrative features of the one or more embodiments. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various embodiments may be employed and this description is intended to include all such embodiments and their equivalents.

Embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more embodiments. It may be evident however that such embodiment s may be practiced without these specific details. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Thus methods systems computer programs and the like are herein disclosed that provide for creating a collective network capture images using an image capture device using real time video analysis such as AR or the like to assist the user of mobile devices within the collective network to receive notifications of objects in which the user might be interested based on the real time video of other users in the collective network. Through the use of real time vision object recognition objects such as but not limited to logos artwork products locations buildings writing barcodes product identifiers and other features that can be recognized in the real time video stream and can be matched to data associated with the object to assist the user with receiving information about the objects in which the user is interested.

In specific embodiments the data that is matched to the images in the real time video stream is specific to financial institutions such as customer financial behavior history customer purchase power transaction history and the like financial institution data . In this regard many of the embodiments herein disclose leveraging financial institution data which is uniquely specific to a financial institution in providing object information to the mobile devices of the users in connection with real time video stream analysis. For example the financial institution data may be used to determine the objects in which a user in a collective network may be interested discounts associated with an object what accounts to use for payment methods etc.

While embodiments discussed herein are generally described with respect to real time video streams or real time video it will be appreciated that the video stream may be captured and stored for later viewing and analysis. Indeed in some embodiments video is recorded and stored on a mobile device and portions or the entirety of the video may be analyzed at a later time. The later analysis may be conducted on the mobile device or loaded onto a different device for analysis. The portions of the video that may be stored and analyzed may range from a single frame of video e.g. a screenshot to the entirety of the video. Additionally rather than video the user may opt to take a still picture of the environment to be analyzed immediately or at a later time. Embodiments in which real time video recorded video or still pictures are analyzed are contemplated herein.

As illustrated by block in another step in the collective network process is to capture an object using the object recognition application such as an image capture device or the like through a mobile device and compare information about the object with the objects in which one or more users in the same collective networks have an interest. This step may include receiving object information from one or more mobile devices determining the user from which the object information was sent determining to which collective networks the user belongs determining the other users that belong to the same collective networks comparing the identified object information with the objects in which the other users in the collective networks have an interest and determining the other users in the collective network that are interested in the same similar or related objects to the object identified.

As illustrated by block in the last step in the collective network process is to notify one or more users in the collective network that another user in the collective network has captured information about an object in which the one or more users are interested. This step may include but is not limited to determining if a user wants to be notified of objects identified by other users in collective network in which the user has an interest determining the type of notification the user wishes to receive sending the notification to the user which may be sent via a social networking site receiving a response from the user relating to the action that the user wishes to take regarding the object i.e. purchase the object hold the object for later purchase the object somewhere else etc. sending a notification to carry out the action performing the action and if necessary settling the financial accounts of the users merchant and financial institution. This step may be executed by the user by a software agent an algorithm other systems and or the like.

The network may be a global area network GAN such as the Internet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN or any other type of network or combination of networks. The network may provide for wireline wireless or a combination of wireline and wireless communication between devices on the network .

In some embodiments of the invention the primary user is any user that belongs to the collective network who captures an object using the mobile device and the secondary user is any user in the collective network for whom it is determined that the user may be interested in receiving information about the object. As explained throughout this specification the determination of the secondary user s interest in object information may be based on a group of products i.e. wish list shopping list etc. transaction history selected interests etc. selected by or attributed to the secondary user . In other embodiments of the invention the primary user is a user that the secondary user designates as a person from which the secondary user wants to receive object information from based on the objects captured by the primary user . In other embodiments the secondary user can be assigned to a primary user or visa versa based on the profiles of the users interests transaction history etc. Therefore the users in the collective network can select specific people in the network to follow select specific objects to follow be assigned to specific people or be assigned to specific objects in order to receive information about objects captured by the other users in the collective network. Also for example a dependent user can also be a secondary user at the same time or at a later point in time in the configuration network. For example the dependent user may be capturing an object which is being sent to a secondary user within the collective network while at the same time the dependent user may also be receiving object information from another user at the same time in which case the dependent user is also a secondary user .

As illustrated in the mobile devices as explained in further detail below with respect to generally comprise a communication device a processing device and a memory device. As used herein the term processing device generally includes circuitry used for implementing the communication and or logic functions of a particular system. For example a processing device may include a digital signal processor device a microprocessor device and various analog to digital converters digital to analog converters and other support circuits and or combinations of the foregoing. Control and signal processing functions of the system are allocated between these processing devices according to their respective capabilities. The processing device may include functionality to operate one or more software programs based on computer readable instructions thereof which may be stored in a memory device.

The processing device is operatively coupled to the communication device and the memory device. The processing device uses the communication device to communicate with the network and other devices on the network such as but not limited to the other mobile devices the collective network systems and or financial institution systems . As such the communication device generally comprises a modem server or other device for communicating with other devices on the network . As further illustrated in the mobile device may have computer readable instructions stored in the memory device which in one embodiment includes the computer readable instructions of an object recognition application . In some embodiments the memory device includes a datastore for storing data related to the mobile device including but not limited to data created and or used by the object recognition application . Again these systems devices and applications will be explained in further detail with respect to however they are generally used for capturing objects using an object identification device such as an image capture device or the like to capture real time video or the like.

As illustrated in the collective network systems generally comprise a communication device a processing device and a memory device . The processing device is operatively coupled to the communication device and the memory device . The processing device uses the communication device to communicate with the network and other devices on the network such as but not limited to the mobile devices and or the financial institution systems . As such the communication device generally comprises a modem server or other device for communicating with other devices on the network .

As further illustrated in the collective network systems comprise computer readable instructions stored in the memory device which in one embodiment includes the computer readable instructions of a collective network application . In some embodiments the memory device includes a datastore for storing data related to the collective network systems including but not limited to data created and or used by the collective network application .

The collective network application is an application that is used to receive process store and send information relating to objects captured by the mobile devices determine if information related to the objects captured should be sent to other users in the collective network and send notifications to the mobile devices of users regarding the objects captured if it is determined users in the collective network are interested in the objects. The collective network application may also communicate with account applications at the financial institution to process transactions made by users through the collective network.

As further illustrated in the financial institution systems generally comprise a communication device a processing device and a memory device . The processing device is operatively coupled to the communication device and the memory device . The processing device uses the communication device to communicate with the network and other devices on the network such as but not limited to the mobile devices and the collective network systems . As such the communication device generally comprises a modem server wireless card and or other device s for communicating with other devices on the network .

As further illustrated in the financial institution systems comprise computer readable instructions stored in the memory device which in one embodiment includes the computer readable instructions of an account application . In some embodiments the memory device includes a datastore for storing data related to the financial institution systems including but not limited to data created and or used by the account application .

The account application allows the users to connect their individual user profiles in the collective network to their accounts at the financial institution. In this way the users within the collective network can purchase objects identified by them or other users in the collective network after the collective network systems send notifications to users about objects in which the users may be interested.

It is understood that the servers systems and devices described herein illustrate one embodiment of the invention. It is further understood that one or more of the servers systems and devices can be combined in other embodiments and still function in the same or similar way as the embodiments described herein.

The mobile device may generally include a processor communicably coupled to such devices as a memory user output devices user input devices a network interface a power source a clock or other timer an image capture device a positioning system device e.g. a Global Positioning System GPS device one or more integrated circuits etc.

In some embodiments the mobile device and or the server access one or more databases or datastores not shown in to search for and or retrieve information related to an object and or marker. In some embodiments the mobile device and or the server access one or more datastores local to the mobile device and or server and in other embodiments the mobile device and or server access datastores remote to the mobile device and or server. In some embodiments the mobile device and or server access both a memory and or datastore local to the mobile device and or server as well as a datastore remote from the mobile device and or server.

The processor and other processors described herein may generally include circuitry for implementing communication and or logic functions of the mobile device . For example the processor may include a digital signal processor device a microprocessor device and various analog to digital converters digital to analog converters and or other support circuits. Control and signal processing functions of the mobile device may be allocated between these devices according to their respective capabilities. The processor thus may also include the functionality to encode and interleave messages and data prior to modulation and transmission. The processor may additionally include an internal data modem. Further the processor may include functionality to operate one or more software programs or applications which may be stored in the memory . For example the processor may be capable of operating a connectivity program such as a web browser application . The web browser application may then allow the mobile device to transmit and receive web content such as for example location based content and or other web page content according to a Wireless Application Protocol WAP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP and or the like.

The processor may also be capable of operating applications such as an object recognition application . The object recognition application or a portion of thereof may be downloaded from a server and stored in the memory of the mobile device . Alternatively the object recognition application may be pre installed and stored in a memory in the integrated circuit . In such an embodiment the user may not need to download the object recognition application from a server. In some embodiments the object recognition application may be stored on a server and the mobile device can access the object recognition application such as through the network in order to access the functionality of the object recognition application . The object recognition application may be used in conjunction with an object capture device such as an image capture device to capture images of objects. The objection recognition application may work in conjunction with or contain an AR presentation application . The AR presentation application may be downloaded pre installed stored or accessed in the same way as described with respect to the object recognition application . The AR presentation application may be used to analyze the objects captured and display them with indicators as explained in further detail later.

In some embodiments the processor may also be capable of operating one or more applications such as one or more applications functioning as an artificial intelligence AI engine. The processor may recognize objects that it has identified in prior uses by way of the AI engine. In this way the processor may recognize specific objects and or classes of objects and store information related to the recognized objects in one or more memories and or databases discussed herein. Once the AI engine has thereby learned of an object and or class of objects the AI engine may run concurrently with and or collaborate with other modules or applications described herein to perform the various steps of the methods discussed. For example in some embodiments the AI engine recognizes an object that has been recognized before and stored by the AI engine. The AI engine may then communicate to another application or module of the mobile device and or server an indication that the object may be the same object previously recognized. In this regard the AI engine may provide a baseline or starting point from which to determine the nature of the object. In other embodiments the AI engine s recognition of an object is accepted as the final recognition of the object.

The integrated circuit may include the necessary circuitry to provide the object recognition functionality to the mobile device . Generally the integrated circuit may include data storage which may include data associated with the objects within a real time video stream that the object recognition application identifies as having a certain object recognition marker s . The integrated circuit and or data storage may be an integrated circuit a microprocessor a system on a chip a microcontroller or the like. As discussed above in one embodiment the Integrated circuit may provide the object recognition functionality to the mobile device . In some embodiments some or all of the data storage for the data associated with objects may be located outside of the mobile device such as on another computer or sever with which the mobile device can communicate to access and or store data associated with objects captured.

Of note while illustrates the integrated circuit as a separate and distinct element within the mobile device it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the object recognition functionality of the integrated circuit may be incorporated within other elements in the mobile device . For instance the functionality of the Integrated circuit may be incorporated within the mobile device memory and or processor . In a particular embodiment the functionality of the integrated circuit is incorporated in an element within the mobile device that provides object recognition capabilities to the mobile device . Still further the Integrated circuit functionality may be included in a removable storage device such as an SD card or the like.

The processor may be configured to use the network interface to communicate with one or more other devices on a network. In this regard the network interface may include an antenna operatively coupled to a transmitter and a receiver together a transceiver . The processor may be configured to provide signals to and receive signals from the transmitter and receiver respectively. The signals may include signaling information in accordance with the air interface standard of the applicable cellular system of the wireless telephone network that may be part of the network. In this regard the mobile device may be configured to operate with one or more air interface standards communication protocols modulation types and access types. By way of illustration the mobile device may be configured to operate in accordance with any of a number of first second third and or fourth generation communication protocols etc. and or the like. For example the mobile device may be configured to operate in accordance with second generation 2G wireless communication protocols IS 136 time division multiple access TDMA GSM global system for mobile communication and or IS 95 code division multiple access CDMA or with third generation 3G wireless communication protocols such as Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS CDMA2000 wideband CDMA WCDMA and or time division synchronous CDMA TD SCDMA with fourth generation 4G wireless communication protocols and or the like. The mobile device may also be configured to operate in accordance with non cellular communication mechanisms such as via a wireless local area network WLAN or other communication data networks.

The network interface may also include an object recognition interface in order to allow a user to execute some or all of the above described processes with respect to the Object recognition application and or the Integrated circuit . The object recognition interface may have access to the hardware e.g. the transceiver and software previously described with respect to the network interface . Furthermore the object recognition interface may have the ability to connect to and communicate with an external object recognition data storage on a separate system within the network as a means of recognizing the object s in the video stream.

As described above the mobile device may have a user interface that includes user output devices and or user input devices . The user output devices may include a display e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or the like and a speaker or other audio device which are operatively coupled to the processor . The user input devices which may allow the mobile device to receive data from a user may include any of a number of devices allowing the mobile device to receive data from a user such as a keypad keyboard touch screen touchpad microphone mouse joystick other pointer device button soft key and or other input device s .

The mobile device may further include a power source . Generally the power source is a device that supplies electrical energy to an electrical load. In one embodiment power source may convert a form of energy such as solar energy chemical energy mechanical energy etc. to electrical energy. Generally the power source in a mobile device may be a battery such as a lithium battery a nickel metal hydride battery or the like that is used for powering various circuits e.g. the transceiver circuit and other devices that are used to operate the mobile device . Alternatively the power source may be a power adapter that can connect a power supply from a power outlet to the mobile device . In such embodiments a power adapter may be classified as a power source in the mobile device.

The mobile device may also include a memory operatively coupled to the processor . As used herein memory may include any computer readable medium configured to store data code or other information. The memory may include volatile memory such as volatile Random Access Memory RAM including a cache area for the temporary storage of data. The memory may also include non volatile memory which can be embedded and or may be removable. The non volatile memory may additionally or alternatively include an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or the like.

The memory may store any of a number of applications or programs which comprise computer executable instructions code executed by the processor to implement the functions of the mobile device described herein. For example the memory may include such applications as an object recognition application a web browser application an Short Message Service SMS application an email application an AR presentation application etc. As explained throughout the application the object recognition application in some embodiments allows the user of the mobile device to capture objects using the mobile device identify the objects and retrieve additional information about the object and the AR presentation application allows indicators to be associated with the objects being captured and displayed.

In some embodiments the information provided by the real time video stream may be compared to data provided to the system through an API. In this way the data may be stored in a separate API and be implemented by request from the mobile device and or server accesses another application by way of an API.

In various embodiments information associated with or related to one or more objects that is retrieved for presentation to a user via the mobile device may be permanently or semi permanently associated with the object. In other words the object may be tagged with the information. In some embodiments a location pointer is associated with an object after information is retrieved regarding the object. In this regard subsequent mobile devices capturing the object for recognition may retrieve the associated information tags and or pointers in order to more quickly retrieve information regarding the object. In some embodiments the mobile device provides the user an opportunity to post messages links to information or the like and associate such postings with the object. Subsequent users may then be presenting such postings when their mobile devices capture and recognize an object. In some embodiments the information gathered through the recognition and information retrieval process may be posted by the user in association with the object. Such tags and or postings may be stored in a predetermined memory and or database for ease of searching and retrieval.

The environment contains a number of objects . Some of such objects may include a marker identifiable to the mobile device . A marker may be any type of marker that is a distinguishing feature that can be interpreted by the mobile device to identify specific objects . For instance an object recognition marker may be alpha numeric characters symbols logos shapes ratio of size of one feature to another feature a product identifying code such as a bar code electromagnetic radiation such as radio waves e.g. radio frequency identification RFID architectural features color etc. In some embodiments the marker may be audio and the mobile device may be capable of utilizing audio recognition to identify words or unique sounds broadcast. The marker may be any size shape etc. Indeed in some embodiments the marker may be very small relative to the object such as the alpha numeric characters that identify the name or model of an object whereas in other embodiments the marker is the entire object such as the unique shape size structure etc.

In some embodiments the marker is not actually a physical marker located on or being broadcast by the object . For instance the marker may be some type of identifiable feature that is an indication that the object is nearby. In some embodiments the marker for an object may actually be the marker for a different object . For example the mobile device may recognize a particular building as being Building A. Data stored in the data storage may indicate that Building B is located directly to the east and next to Building A. Thus markers for an object that are not located on or being broadcast by the object are generally based on fixed facts about the object e.g. Building B is next to Building A . However it is not a requirement that such a marker be such a fixed fact. The marker may be anything that enables the mobile device and associated applications to interpret to a desired confidence level what the object is. For another example the mobile device object recognition application and or AR presentation application may be used to identify a particular person as a first character from a popular show and thereafter utilize the information that the first character is nearby features of other characters to interpret that a second character a third character etc. are nearby whereas without the identification of the first character the features of the second and third characters may not have been used to identify the second and third characters. This example may also be applied to objects outside of people.

The marker may also be or include social network data such as data retrieved or communicated from the Internet such as tweets blog posts social networking site posts various types of messages and or the like. In other embodiments the marker is provided in addition to social network data as mentioned above. For example the mobile device may capture a video stream and or one or more still shots of a large gathering of people. In this example as above one or more people dressed as characters in costumes may be present at a specified location. The mobile device object recognition application and or the AR presentation application may identify several social network indicators such as posts blogs tweets messages and or the like indicating the presence of one or more of the characters at the specified location. In this way the mobile device and associated applications may communicate information regarding the social media communications to the user and or use the information regarding the social media communications in conjunction with other methods of object recognition. For example the mobile device object recognition application and or the AR presentation application performing recognition of the characters at the specified location may confirm that the characters being identified are in fact the correct characters based on the retrieved social media communications. This example may also be applied objects outside of people.

In some embodiments the mobile device and or server access one or more other servers social media networks applications and or the like in order to retrieve and or search for information useful in performing an object recognition. In some embodiments the mobile device and or server accesses another application by way of an application programming interface or API. In this regard the mobile device and or server may quickly search and or retrieve information from the other program without requiring additional authentication steps or other gateway steps.

While illustrates that the objects with markers only include a single marker it will be appreciated that the object may have any number of markers with each equally capable of identifying the object . Similarly multiple markers may be identified by the mobile device and associated applications such that the combination of the markers may be utilized to identify the object . For example the mobile device may utilize facial recognition markers to identify a person and or utilize a separate marker such as the clothes the person is wearing to confirm the identification to the desired confidence level that the person is in fact the person the mobile device identified. For example the facial recognition may identify a person as a famous athlete and thereafter utilize the uniform the person is wearing to confirm that it is in fact the famous athlete.

In some embodiments a marker may be the location of the object . In such embodiments the mobile device may utilize Global Positioning System GPS software to determine the location of the user and or object . As noted above a location based marker could be utilized in conjunction with other non location based markers identifiable and recognized by the mobile device to identify the object . However in some embodiments a location based marker may be the only marker . For instance in such embodiments the mobile device may utilize GPS software to determine the location of the user and a compass device or software to determine what direction the mobile device is facing in order to identify the object . In still further embodiments the mobile device does not utilize any GPS data in the identification. In such embodiments markers used to identify the object are not location based.

The mobile device may use any type of means in order to identify desired objects e.g. object recognition application and image capture device etc. . For instance the mobile device may utilize one or more pattern recognition algorithms to analyze objects in the environment and compare with markers in data storage which may be contained within the mobile device such as within Integrated circuit or externally on a separate system accessible via the connected network. For example the pattern recognition algorithms may include decision trees logistic regression Bayes classifiers support vector machines kernel estimation perceptrons clustering algorithms regression algorithms categorical sequence labeling algorithms real valued sequence labeling algorithms parsing algorithms general algorithms for predicting arbitrarily structured labels such as Bayesian networks and Markov random fields ensemble learning algorithms such as bootstrap aggregating boosting ensemble averaging combinations thereof and the like.

Upon identifying an object within the real time video stream the mobile device is configured to superimpose an indicator on the mobile device display . The indicator is generally a graphical representation that highlights or outlines the object and may be activatable e.g. include a tab or link such that the primary user may select the indicator and retrieve information related to the identified object. The information may include any desired information associated with the selected object and may range from basic information to greatly detailed information. In some embodiments the indicator may provide the user with an internet hyperlink to further information on the object . The information may include for example all types of media such as text images clipart video clips movies or any other type of information desired. In yet other embodiments the indicator information related to the identified object may be visualized by the user without selecting the indicator .

In embodiments in which the indicator provides an interactive tab to the primary user the primary user may select the indicator by any conventional means for interaction with the mobile device . For instance in some embodiments the primary user may utilize an input device such as a keyboard to highlight and select the indicator in order to retrieve the information. In a particular embodiment the mobile device display includes a touch screen that the primary user may employ to select the indicator utilizing the user s finger a stylus or the like.

In some embodiments the indicator is not interactive and simply provides information to the primary user by superimposing the indicator onto the display . For example in some instances it may be beneficial for the object recognition application to merely identify an object just identify the object s name title give brief information about the object etc. rather than provide extensive detail that requires interaction with the indicator . The mobile device and or AR presentation application is capable of being tailored to a user s desired preferences.

After an object is either selected by the primary user by the object recognition application or the AR presentation application a secondary user may receive notification that the primary user has identified an object in which the secondary user may be interested as explained in further detail below with respect to .

Furthermore the indicator may be displayed at any size on the mobile device display . The indicator may be small enough that it is positioned on or next to the object being identified such that the object remains discernable behind the indicator . Additionally the indicator may be semi transparent such that the object remains discernible behind the indicator . In other embodiments the indicator may be large enough to completely cover the object portrayed on the display . Indeed in some embodiments the indicator may cover a majority or the entirety of the mobile device display .

The primary user may opt to execute the object recognition application and AR presentation application at any desired moment and begin video capture and analysis. However in some embodiments the object recognition application and or AR presentation application includes an always on feature in which the mobile device is continuously capturing video and analyzing the objects within the video stream. In such embodiments the object recognition application and or the AR presentation application may be configured to alert the primary user or secondary user that a particular object has been identified by the primary user . The primary user or secondary user may set any number of user preferences to tailor the AR experience to their needs. For instance the secondary user may opt to only be alerted if a certain particular object is identified. Additionally it will be appreciated that the always on feature in which video is continuously captured may consume the mobile device power source more quickly. Thus in some embodiments the always on feature may disengage if a determined event occurs such as low power source low levels of light for an extended period of time e.g. such as if the mobile device is in a user s pocket obstructing a clear view of the environment from the mobile device if the mobile device remains stationary thus receiving the same video stream for an extended period of time the user sets a certain time of day to disengage etc. Conversely if the always on feature is disengaged due to the occurrence of such an event the users may opt for the always on feature to re engage after the duration of the disengaging event e.g. power source is re charged light levels are increased etc. .

In some embodiments the primary user may identify objects that the object recognition application does not identify and add it to the data storage with desired information in order to be identified and or displayed in the future. For instance the primary user may select an unidentified object and enter a name title and or any other desired information for the unidentified object . In such embodiments the object recognition application may detect record certain markers about the object so that the pattern recognition algorithm s or other identification means may detect the object in the future. Furthermore in cases where the object information is within the data storage but the object recognition application fails to identify the object e.g. one or more identifying characteristics or markers of the object has changed since it was added to the data storage or the marker simply was not identified the primary user may select the object and associate it with an object already stored in the data storage . In such cases the object recognition application may be capable of updating the markers for the object in order to identify the object in future real time video streams.

In addition in some embodiments the primary user may opt to edit the information or add to the information provided by the indicator . For instance the primary user may opt to include user specific information about a certain object such that the information may be displayed upon a future identification of the object . Conversely in some embodiments the primary user may opt to delete or hide an object from being identified and a indicator associated therewith being displayed on the mobile device display .

Furthermore in some instances an object may include one or more markers identified by the object recognition application that leads the object recognition application to associate an object with more than one object in the data storage . In such instances the primary user may be presented with the multiple candidate identifications for the objects and may opt to choose the appropriate identification or input a different identification. The multiple candidates may be presented to the primary user by any means. For instance in one embodiment the candidates are presented to the primary user as a list wherein the strongest candidate is listed first based on reliability of the identification. Upon input by the user identifying the object the object recognition application may learn from the input and store additional markers in order to avoid multiple identification candidates for the same object in future identifications.

Additionally the object recognition application may utilize other metrics for identification than identification algorithms. For instance the object recognition application may utilize the user s location time of day season weather speed of location changes e.g. walking versus traveling busyness e.g. how many objects are in motion versus stationary in the video stream as well any number of other conceivable factors in determining the identification of objects . Moreover the primary user may input preferences or other metrics for which the object recognition application may utilize to narrow results of identified objects .

In some embodiments the AR presentation application may have the ability to gather and report user interactions with displayed indicators . The data elements gathered and reported may include but are not limited to number of offer impressions time spent viewing an offer product object or business number of offers investigated via a selection number of offers loaded to an electronic wallet and the like. Such user interactions may be reported to any type of entity desired. In one particular embodiment the user interactions may be reported to a financial institution and the information reported may include customer financial behavior purchase power transaction history and the like.

As illustrated by block in the collective network may also receive a request from a user to create a user profile for the group. The user profile may include information about the user for example the location of the user s home work places the user likes to visit etc. The user profile can include personal information about the locations the user frequents the financial accounts of the user user news or event reporting i.e. news or events that the user would like others to view such as an accident disaster retirement announcement etc. the objects in which the user may be interested. For example as illustrated by block the collective network may receive a request to link and authenticate the user profile in the collective network to an account the user holds at a financial institution. In this way the collective network application can communicate with the account applications on the financial institution systems to gain access to the financial accounts of the user or the access to the bank that holds the financial account of the user. Thus the users can make purchases using the mobile devices linked to the users accounts and or settle accounts between users in the collective network by contacting the financial institutions of the users in the collective network. In some embodiments the users may be able to fund accounts that are tracked and stored by the collective network application such that financial transactions can be made without having to contact the financial institution. In other embodiments the collective network application can access the financial accounts of the user to determine the user s transaction history in order to determine what types of purchases the user likes to make. In yet other embodiments the collective network application can be linked to an individual associated with the user such that the user and individual associated with the user may communicate. Individuals associated with the user may include but are not limited to a financial advisor for advisement on purchases etc. or a friend for personal advice on making a purchase.

As illustrated by block the collective network may receive a request to add one or more objects to the user s profile. For example a secondary user may want to be notified when a primary user in the collective network identifies a product business location etc. in which the secondary user is interested. In this way the secondary user can add the object to a group of objects in the secondary user s profile such as in a wish list shopping list etc. Therefore when the objects in the secondary user s profile are identified by a primary user in the same collective network then the collective network application can notify the secondary user that the object has been identified. In some embodiments the user requests to have an object added to the user s profile however in other embodiments the collective network application suggests or automatically adds a product to the user s list. For example in the present application users within a collective network may request to have a specific video game console added to their user profiles so they may be notified when another user in the collective network identifies the video game console.

As illustrated in block of the collective network application may receive a request to invite users to the join the collective network group. For example in some embodiments the user who set up the collective network or users designated to invite other users may be able to invite other people to join the collective network. In other embodiments of the invention any user in the collective network may be able to invite other people to become users of the collective network.

Block in illustrates that the collective network application may receive a request from people not currently in the collective network to join the collective network. For example a collective network may include a group of friends from college and other people at the school may want to join the college collective network to receive information related to objects that other people from the college are identifying with the object recognition application . Therefore people may request that the primary user secondary user or the collective network application allow them to become users of the collective network.

As illustrated in block the collective network may receive a request to activate the collective network group. In some embodiments of the invention the user that set up the collective network or other users in the collective network may need to activate the collective network by turning on the object recognition application and the AR presentation application and allowing the collective network application to receive object information from the object recognition application that is being captured by the mobile device of the user.

Thereafter as illustrated by block the collective network application determines to which collective networks the primary user belongs. For example the primary user may belong to two separate collective networks with one or more users in each network. The collective network application may determine what secondary users also belong to the same collective networks as the primary user as illustrated by block in . For example there might be ten secondary users in the first collective network and twenty secondary users in the second collective network.

As illustrated by block in the collective network application compares the identified object data captured by the primary user with stored object information for the for users that belong to the same collective networks. For example the collective network application may compare the information about the new video game system captured by the primary user with the ten secondary users that belong to the first collective network and the twenty secondary users that belong to the second collective network. The collective network application determines what users in the same collective networks as the primary user are interested in the same similar or related object information as illustrated in block of . In the example discussed herein two of the users in the first collective network may have the video game system associated with the their profiles and one secondary user in the second collective network may have video games for the video game system associated with his profile. Therefore in this example there are two users in the first collective network that the collective network application identified as being interested in the same object and one user in the second collective network that is interested in a related product.

As illustrated by block once the type of notification is received the collective network application sends the notifications to the identified secondary users . In some embodiments the notification is sent to users over the traditional communication channels for a mobile device or computer i.e. text message e mail . In some embodiments the users may be notified through the collective network application that has it own log in and authentication process. Therefore in some embodiments the collective network application allows for secure financial transactions to take place between the users and or a financial institution hosting the collective network application . In one example the collective network application may be a part of an online banking application at a financial institution such that the user can make purchases using their accounts though the online banking application.

In some embodiments the collective application network may receive a response from the secondary user relating to an action the secondary user wishes to take regarding the object as illustrated in block of . As illustrated by block the collection notification application may receive a response from the secondary user relating to an action that the secondary user wishes to take regarding the object. In some embodiments the secondary user may want to purchase the object on site purchase the object over the Internet identify locations to purchase the object receive more information regarding the object have the primary user purchase the object i.e. using the primary user s funds using funds from the secondary user or on credit from the financial institution or merchant etc. For example in the example described herein one secondary user in the first collective network may have the primary user purchase the video game system for him while the other secondary user in the first collective network may request to be shown locations near him that are selling the same video system and the secondary user in the second collective network may request to receive more information regarding video games that can be purchased that relate to the video game system identified.

As illustrated by block the collective network application may send a notification to carry out the action that the secondary user wishes to take. For example the collective network application may send a notification to the primary user to purchase the object for the secondary user it may send a notification to purchase the object with the funds of a secondary user it may send a notification to the primary user to capture more information about the object or other related objects etc. In the example described herein the collective network application may send a notification to the primary user to purchase the video game system for the secondary user in the first collective network. The financial institution may transfer funds from the account of the secondary user to the account of the primary user in order to make the purchase. In other embodiments of the invention the purchase may be made directly from the account from the second user through authorization based on the second user being virtually present via the collective network.

The collective network application may also send a notification to the primary user to capture the video games that are being sold with the game for the secondary user in the second collective network. In some embodiments the step illustrated in block is not necessary as the collective network application may already have additional information requested by the secondary user in which case the process can move to the next step. For example the collective network application may already have information about the location of the same video game system for the second secondary user in the first collective network that requested information about the other locations selling the same video game system.

As illustrated in block of the collective network can carry out the action the secondary user wishes to take regarding the object. For example in the embodiment discussed herein the collective network can send one of the secondary users from the first collective network locations at which the secondary user can find the video game system based on the secondary user s current location i.e. through GPS etc. the secondary user s home location the secondary user s work location i.e. through the profile information a secondary user s wish list or shopping list which may alert the user that the product he is viewing is wanted by a secondary user etc.

As illustrated in block of the collective network application can send the transaction details to the account application at the financial institution in order to settle any financial accounts between the users in the collective network the merchants where the object was purchased and or the financial institution. For example the if the primary user purchases the video game system for the secondary user the collective network application can direct the financial account applications to transfer the necessary funds from the account of the secondary user to the account of the primary user .

Thus methods systems computer programs and the like have been disclosed that provide for using real time video analysis such as AR or the like to assist the user of mobile devices with commerce activities. Through the use real time vision object recognition objects logos artwork products locations and other features that can be recognized in the real time video stream can be matched to data associated with such objects to assist the user with commerce activity. The commerce activity may include but is not limited to conducting a transaction providing information about a product service providing rewards based information providing user specific offers or the like. In specific embodiments the data that matched the images in the real time video stream is specific to financial institutions such as customer financial behavior history customer purchase power transaction history and the like. In this regard some of the embodiments herein disclose leveraging financial institution data which is uniquely specific to financial institutions in providing information to mobile device users in connection with real time video stream analysis.

Various embodiments or features are presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

The steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some embodiments the processor and the storage medium may reside in an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a computing device. Additionally in some embodiments the events and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

In one or more embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection may be termed a computer readable medium. For example if software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein include compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other embodiment unless stated otherwise.

The systems methods computer program products etc. described herein may be utilized or combined with any other suitable AR related application. Non limiting examples of other suitable AR related applications include those described in the following U.S. Provisional patent applications the entirety of each of which is incorporated herein by reference 

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other changes combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

