---

title: Triggering application action using non-standard controls
abstract: A lock button of a mobile device with an iOS operating system, to be used by a user to effect an action when the mobile device is in the locked state, is enabled for other functions by executing an application on the mobile device. When the mobile device is in a locked state, the application is in a dormant mode. The OS of the mobile device monitors for a change of location of the device and/or for the receipt of a short range wireless data signal. Upon detecting either, the operating system communicates this to the application which in response enters a background mode and monitors the on/off state of a screen of the mobile device. If the screen state changes at least twice within a predetermined period of time, the application effects an action, such as sending a panic signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09661480&OS=09661480&RS=09661480
owner: Cambridge Mobile Telematics
number: 09661480
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160921
---
This application claims the benefit of related U.S. Patent Application No. 62 221 161 filed Sep. 21 2015 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The disclosure relates to a system and method for activating dormant applications in a mobile computing device and more particularly to activation of specific application actions using control buttons in a non standard way.

The iOS operating system for mobile devices is created and developed by Apple Inc. and distributed exclusively for Apple hardware.

A mobile device with the operating system typically has a so called locked state where the screen of the device is off and some of the applications may be executing in the background. However in this locked state with the screen off the user would first need to wake up the device by pressing a so called home button which would switch on the screen and allow the user to then unlock the device to obtain access to the full functionality of the mobile device and access the relevant applications or features.

In the locked state pressing a power on off button will also switch on the screen. Holding the power on off button down for an extended period of time will switch off the device. Pressing the power on off button twice in quick succession will have no further effect.

In accordance with an embodiment of the disclosure a method of enabling a lock button of a mobile device with an iOS operating system to be used by a user to effect an action when the mobile device is in the locked state includes executing an application on the mobile device wherein when the mobile device is in a locked state the application is in a dormant mode monitoring by the operating system of the mobile device for a change of location of the device monitoring by the operating system of the mobile device for the receipt of a short range wireless data signal upon detecting a change of location of the device or upon receiving a short range wireless data signal the operating system communicates this to the application which in response enters a background mode and monitors the on off state of a screen of the mobile device for any switching between an on state and an off state of the screen and if the on off state of the screen changes at least twice then the mobile application effects an action.

In variations thereof the short range wireless data signal is preferably a Bluetooth Low Energy signal the mobile device is typically a mobile telephone and or the action in one example is to transmit a panic data message to an external server which panic message may include a location of the mobile device.

In another embodiment of the disclosure a mobile device with an iOS operating system includes a memory for storing data therein a long range communication module for communication over a cellular communication network a short range communications module for receiving short range signals a location determination module to determine the location of the mobile device a user interface for receiving inputs from the user a screen for displaying information to the user and a processor for executing an operating system and an application thereon the processor monitoring by the operating system for a change of location of the device as detected by the location determination module monitoring by the operating system for the receipt of a short range wireless data signal via the short range communications module upon detecting a change of location of the device or upon receiving a short range wireless data signal the operating system communicates this to the application which in response enters a background mode and monitors the on off state of the screen of the mobile device for any switching between an on state and an off state of the screen if the on off state of the screen changes a predetermined number of times within a predetermined period of time then effecting an action.

In variations thereof the mobile device is typically a mobile telephone the short range wireless data signal is a Bluetooth Low Energy signal and or the action in one example is to transmit a panic data message to an external server which panic message may include a location of the mobile device.

As required detailed embodiments are disclosed herein however it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are merely examples and that the systems and methods described below can be embodied in various forms. Therefore specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a basis for the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the present subject matter in virtually any appropriately detailed structure and function. Further the terms and phrases used herein are not intended to be limiting but rather to provide an understandable description of the concepts.

The terms a or an as used herein are defined as one or more than one. The term plurality as used herein is defined as two or more than two. The term another as used herein is defined as at least a second or more. The terms including and having as used herein are defined as comprising i.e. open language . The term coupled as used herein is defined as connected although not necessarily directly and not necessarily mechanically.

The present disclosure relates to a method of enabling a lock button of a mobile device with an iOS operating system iOS is a trademark of Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. to be used by a user to effect an action when the mobile device is in the locked state.

A mobile device with the operating system typically has a so called locked state where the screen of the device is off and some of the applications may be executing in the background. However in this locked state with the screen off the user would first need to wake up the device by pressing a so called home button which would switch on the screen and allow the user to then unlock the device to obtain access to the full functionality of the mobile device and access the relevant applications or features.

In the locked state pressing a power on off button will also switch on the screen. Holding the power on off button down for an extended period of time will switch off the device. Pressing the power on off button twice in quick succession will have no further effect.

Because access to the iOS operating system is not provided to application developers in a locked out state there is currently no method of enabling a double press of the power on off button to be used by an application developer to execute an action. The present disclosure addresses this without requiring access to changing the iOS operating system.

The present disclosure relates to a method of enabling a lock button of a mobile device with an iOS operating system to be used by a user to effect a non standard action with respect to the lock button when the mobile device is in the locked state thereby improving a functionality of the mobile computing device.

Referring to a mobile device is illustrated including a number of components. The mobile device is typically a mobile telephone. A processor and associated memory is used for controlling the operation of the device. The processor executes an iOS operating system for mobile devices created and developed by Apple Inc. and distributed exclusively for Apple hardware. The processor is also able to execute applications which are executable software code often written by third parties for the mobile device . The device also includes a display typically in the form of a screen.

A user interface allows a user to input commands to the mobile device . The user interface may include a touchscreen integrated with the display as well as some other buttons which will be described in more detail below.

The device also includes a location module a long range communications module and a short range communications module which will be described in more detail below.

The mobile device has a so called locked state where the screen of the device is off and some of the applications may be executing in the background. In this state the operating system limits what the applications can and cannot do.

In this locked state with the screen off the user would first need to wake up the device by pressing a so called home button which would switch on the screen and allow the user to then unlock the device to obtain access to the full functionality of the mobile device.

In the locked state pressing a power on off button will also switch on the screen. Holding the power on off button down for an extended period of time will switch off the device. Pressing the power on off button twice in quick succession will toggle the screen on and off but will have no further effect.

The present disclosure addresses this in the following manner which does not require altering the operating system of the mobile device but operates within the current setup of the operating system using functionality and hardware of the operating system in an unconventional manner.

To achieve this an application is executed on the processor so that when the mobile device is in a locked state the application is in dormant mode or state. Even in the dormant state the operating system executing on the mobile device does monitor for certain events.

How this works is that the operating system monitors for these changes such as significant location change or picking up a BLE tag and when the operating system picks this up the application is subscribed to those services and the operating system communicates an instruction to the application that this has occurred and thereby wakes up the application which enters into a background mode.

In any event particularly what is being monitored for are a change of location of the device and or the receipt of a short range wireless data signal via the short range communications module . Regarding a change of location of the device this is detected by the location module which typically uses the GPS location of the mobile device . The change of location that is being referred to is typically a significant change of location such as 1 km and not a small change of location.

The operating system starts the Significant Change Location Service which provides accuracy that is sufficient for most applications and represents a power saving alternative to the standard location service. The service uses Wi Fi to determine the location of the device and reports changes in that location allowing the system to manage power usage much more aggressively than it could otherwise. The significant change location service can also wake up an iOS app that is currently suspended or not running in order to deliver new location data.

Regarding the receipt of a short range wireless data signal in one example embodiment this refers to a Bluetooth low energy signal that is received from another device that is periodically transmitting such signals.

Upon detecting either a change of location of the device or upon receiving a short range wireless data signal the operating system communicates an instruction to an application of the disclosure that this change or event has occurred and in response to which the application enters a background mode in which the application monitors the on off state of the screen of the mobile device for any switching between an on state and an off state of the screen . If the on off state of the screen changes at least twice or some other predetermined number of times or pattern of changes within a predetermined period of time for example within a short predetermined period of time then in accordance with the disclosure the mobile application effects a desired predetermined action. As such the disclosure adds a useful functionality to a mobile or other computing device without requiring a change to the operating system. In effect the disclosure enables increasing the scope of an application programming interface within the device and uses controls of the device in an unconventional and non standard way.

This is because the mobile device includes a power on off button which is used to switch the device on and off. However when the device is in the locked state pressing the on off button rapidly simply toggles the screen from on to off or from off to on as the case may be. Thus if the on off state of the screen changes at least twice within a short predetermined period of time this indicates that the power on off button has been pressed twice in relatively quick succession typically within milliseconds or less than a second.

Once the application determines the aforedescribed screen state change it executes an action even whilst in the background mode. This is due to the fact that within the restraints of the current iOS operating system it is possible for an application executing in background mode to monitor if the screen has been switched on or off but it is not possible for an application to otherwise determine if the power on off button has been depressed.

While the disclosure has been described in the context of a mobile computing and communications device executing the iOS operating system other operating systems such as the ANDROID operating system a trademark of Google Inc. of Mountain View Calif. have similar features and the disclosure can be carried out on these other operating systems as would be understood by one skilled in the art.

It will further be appreciated that in accordance with the disclosure by monitoring the status of the screen the application can ascertain if the power on off button has been depressed. Regarding the action that is executed by the application it will be appreciated that this could be any suitable action.

One example action or implementation is in the use of vehicle tracking technology where an application of the disclosure executing on the mobile device is used to track the location of the mobile device either alone or in conjunction with an external tag to which the mobile device communicates typically via Bluetooth. This would occur in a scenario such as is described in commonly assigned copending PCT application PCT IB2014 065736 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

In this example of the disclosure the power on off button can be used as a panic button for the user for example if they are being car jacked. In this scenario the user would press the power on off button twice and the action implemented by the application would be to send a panic message via the long range communications module to an external server. The panic message will typically include a location of the mobile device as obtained from the location module at the time of the panic.

It will be appreciated that the methodology described above effectively allows the power on off button of a mobile device with an iOS operating system to be used to effect an action even when the device is in a locked state and in a manner which is not contemplated or provided for by the operating system specification.

The illustrated electronic device is an example electronic device that includes two way wireless communications functions. Such electronic devices incorporate communication subsystem elements such as a wireless transmitter a wireless receiver and associated components such as one or more antenna elements and . A digital signal processor DSP performs processing to extract data from received wireless signals and to generate signals to be transmitted. The particular design of the communication subsystem is dependent upon the communication network and associated wireless communications protocols with which the device is intended to operate.

The electronic device includes a microprocessor that controls the overall operation of the electronic device . The microprocessor interacts with the above described communications subsystem elements and also interacts with other device subsystems such as flash memory random access memory RAM auxiliary input output I O device data port display keyboard speaker microphone a short range communications subsystem a power subsystem and any other device subsystems.

A battery is connected to a power subsystem to provide power to the circuits of the electronic device . The power subsystem includes power distribution circuitry for providing power to the electronic device and also contains battery charging circuitry to manage recharging the battery . The power subsystem includes a battery monitoring circuit that is operable to provide a status of one or more battery status indicators such as remaining capacity temperature voltage electrical current consumption and the like to various components of the electronic device .

The data port of one example is a receptacle connector or a connector that to which an electrical and optical data communications circuit connector engages and mates as described above. The data port is able to support data communications between the electronic device and other devices through various modes of data communications such as high speed data transfers over an optical communications circuits or over electrical data communications circuits such as a USB connection incorporated into the data port of some examples. Data port is able to support communications with for example an external computer or other device.

Data communication through data port enables a user to set preferences through the external device or through a software application and extends the capabilities of the device by enabling information or software exchange through direct connections between the electronic device and external data sources rather then via a wireless data communication network. In addition to data communication the data port provides power to the power subsystem to charge the battery or to supply power to the electronic circuits such as microprocessor of the electronic device .

Operating system software used by the microprocessor is stored in flash memory . Further examples are able to use a battery backed up RAM or other non volatile storage data elements to store operating systems other executable programs or both. The operating system software device application software or parts thereof are able to be temporarily loaded into volatile data storage such as RAM . Data received via wireless communication signals or through wired communications are also able to be stored to RAM .

The microprocessor in addition to its operating system functions is able to execute software applications on the electronic device . A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations including at least data and voice communication applications is able to be installed on the electronic device during manufacture. Examples of applications that are able to be loaded onto the device may be a personal information manager PIM application having the ability to organize and manage data items relating to the device user such as but not limited to e mail calendar events voice mails appointments and task items.

Further applications may also be loaded onto the electronic device through for example the wireless network an auxiliary I O device Data port short range communications subsystem or any combination of these interfaces. Such applications are then able to be installed by a user in the RAM or a non volatile store for execution by the microprocessor .

In a data communication mode a received signal such as a text message or web page download is processed by the communication subsystem including wireless receiver and wireless transmitter and communicated data is provided the microprocessor which is able to further process the received data for output to the display or alternatively to an auxiliary I O device or the Data port . A user of the electronic device may also compose data items such as e mail messages using the keyboard which is able to include a complete alphanumeric keyboard or a telephone type keypad in conjunction with the display and possibly an auxiliary I O device . Such composed items are then able to be transmitted over a communication network through the communication subsystem.

For voice communications overall operation of the electronic device is substantially similar except that received signals are generally provided to a speaker and signals for transmission are generally produced by a microphone . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the electronic device . Although voice or audio signal output is generally accomplished primarily through the speaker the display may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party the duration of a voice call or other voice call related information for example.

Depending on conditions or statuses of the electronic device one or more particular functions associated with a subsystem circuit may be disabled or an entire subsystem circuit may be disabled. For example if the battery temperature is low then voice functions may be disabled but data communications such as e mail may still be enabled over the communication subsystem.

A short range communications subsystem provides for data communication between the electronic device and different systems or devices which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example the short range communications subsystem includes an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a Radio Frequency based communication module such as one supporting Bluetooth communications to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices including the data file transfer communications described above.

A media reader is able to be connected to an auxiliary I O device to allow for example loading computer readable program code of a computer program product into the electronic device for storage into flash memory . One example of a media reader is an optical drive such as a CD DVD drive which may be used to store data to and read data from a computer readable medium or storage product such as computer readable storage media . Examples of suitable computer readable storage media include optical storage media such as a CD or DVD magnetic media or any other suitable data storage device. Media reader is alternatively able to be connected to the electronic device through the Data port or computer readable program code is alternatively able to be provided to the electronic device through the wireless network .

All references cited herein are expressly incorporated by reference in their entirety. It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that the present disclosure is not limited to what has been particularly shown and described herein above. In addition unless mention was made above to the contrary it should be noted that all of the accompanying drawings are not to scale. There are many different features to the present disclosure and it is contemplated that these features may be used together or separately. Thus the disclosure should not be limited to any particular combination of features or to a particular application of the disclosure. Further it should be understood that variations and modifications within the spirit and scope of the disclosure might occur to those skilled in the art to which the disclosure pertains. Accordingly all expedient modifications readily attainable by one versed in the art from the disclosure set forth herein that are within the scope and spirit of the present disclosure are to be included as further embodiments of the present disclosure.

