---

title: Ear jack recognition method and electronic device supporting the same
abstract: An electronic device is provided. The electronic device connects to an earphone. The electronic device includes a connector into which an ear jack of the earphone is inserted, an audio controller configured to process an acoustic signal, a processor configured to control the audio controller, and a memory configured to functionally connect with the processor. The audio controller outputs a first acoustic signal through an ear speaker of the earphone, if an insertion interruption occurs according to insertion of the ear jack. The processor determines a type of the ear jack according to a second acoustic signal collected through an ear microphone included in the earphone.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09602910&OS=09602910&RS=09602910
owner: SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO., LTD
number: 09602910
owner_city: Suwon-si, Gyeonggi-Do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20160128
---
The present application is related to and claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed on Jan. 28 2015 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial number 10 2015 0013489 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to a method for recognizing an ear jack and an electronic device supporting the same.

Electronic devices such as smartphones or table computers may provide a variety of functions such as a media output function. A user may connect an acoustic output device such as an earphone or a headset to his or her electronic device and may listen to a sound output from the electronic device. The acoustic output device may be implemented with various forms and may include a microphone.

The acoustic output device may connect with the electronic device through an ear jack of the acoustic output device. If the acoustic output device includes the microphone the ear jack may further include a terminal for processing a signal associated with the microphone. The electronic device may recognize a type of the ear jack and may communicate a signal suitable for the type of the ear jack.

Since an additional circuit such as a comparator or an analog to digital converter ADC is included in the electronic device in an ear jack recognition method according to the related art complexity of the electronic device is increased.

To address the above discussed deficiencies it is a primary object to provide at least the advantages described below.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device may connect to an earphone. The electronic device may include a connector into which an ear jack of the earphone is inserted an audio controller configured to process an acoustic signal a processor configured to control the audio controller and a memory configured to functionally connect with the processor. The audio controller may output a first acoustic signal through an ear speaker of the earphone if an insertion interruption occurs according to insertion of the ear jack. The processor may determine a type of the ear jack according to a second acoustic signal collected through an ear microphone included in the earphone.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses various embodiments of the present disclosure.

Before undertaking the DETAILED DESCRIPTION below it may be advantageous to set forth definitions of certain words and phrases used throughout this patent document the terms include and comprise as well as derivatives thereof mean inclusion without limitation the term or is inclusive meaning and or the phrases associated with and associated therewith as well as derivatives thereof may mean to include be included within interconnect with contain be contained within connect to or with couple to or with be communicable with cooperate with interleave juxtapose be proximate to be bound to or with have have a property of or the like and the term controller means any device system or part thereof that controls at least one operation such a device may be implemented in hardware firmware or software or some combination of at least two of the same. It should be noted that the functionality associated with any particular controller may be centralized or distributed whether locally or remotely. Definitions for certain words and phrases are provided throughout this patent document those of ordinary skill in the art should understand that in many if not most instances such definitions apply to prior as well as future uses of such defined words and phrases.

Throughout the drawings it should be noted that like reference numbers are used to depict the same or similar elements features and structures.

In the disclosure disclosed herein the expressions have may have include and comprise or may include and may comprise used herein indicate existence of corresponding features e.g. elements such as numeric values functions operations or components but do not exclude presence of additional features.

In the disclosure disclosed herein the expressions A or B at least one of A or and B or one or more of A or and B and the like used herein may include any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. For example the term A or B at least one of A and B or at least one of A or B may refer to all of the case 1 where at least one A is included the case 2 where at least one B is included or the case 3 where both of at least one A and at least one B are included.

The expressions such as 1st 2nd first or second and the like used in various embodiments of the present disclosure may refer to various elements irrespective of the order and or priority of the corresponding elements but do not limit the corresponding elements. The expressions may be used to distinguish one element from another element. For instance both a first user device and a second user device indicate different user devices from each other irrespective of the order or priority of the corresponding elements. For example a first component may be referred to as a second component and vice versa without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

It will be understood that when an element e.g. a first element is referred to as being operatively or communicatively coupled with to or connected to another element e.g. a second element it can be directly coupled with to or connected to the other element or an intervening element e.g. a third element may be present. In contrast when an element e.g. a first element is referred to as being directly coupled with to or directly connected to another element e.g. a second element it should be understood that there are no intervening element e.g. a third element between the element and the other element.

Depending on the situation the expression configured to used herein may be used as for example the expression suitable for having the capacity to designed to adapted to made to or capable of . The term configured to should not mean only specifically designed to hardwarily. Instead under any situation the expression a device configured to may mean that the device is capable of operating together with another device or other components. For example a processor configured to perform A B and C may mean a generic purpose processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU or an application processor which may perform corresponding operations by executing one or more software programs which stores a dedicated processor e.g. an embedded processor for performing a corresponding operation.

Terms used in this specification are used to describe specified embodiments of the present disclosure and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure. The terms of a singular form may include plural forms unless otherwise specified. Unless otherwise defined herein all the terms used herein which include technical or scientific terms may have the same meaning that is generally understood by a person skilled in the art. It will be further understood that terms which are defined in a dictionary and commonly used should also be interpreted as is customary in the relevant related art and not in an idealized or overly formal detect unless expressly so defined herein in various embodiments of the present disclosure. In some cases even if terms are terms which are defined in the specification they may not be interpreted to exclude embodiments of the present disclosure.

Electronic devices according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of for example smartphones tablet personal computers PCs mobile phones video telephones electronic book readers desktop PCs laptop PCs netbook computers workstations servers personal digital assistants PDAs portable multimedia players PMPs motion picture experts group MPEG 1 or MPEG 2 audio layer 3 MP3 players mobile medical devices cameras or wearable devices e.g. smart glasses head mounted devices HMDs an electronic apparel electronic bracelets electronic necklaces electronic appcessories electronic tattoos smart mirrors or smart watches .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic devices may be smart home appliances. The smart home appliances may include at least one of for example televisions TVs digital versatile disk DVD players audios refrigerators air conditioners cleaners ovens microwave ovens washing machines air cleaners set top boxes home automation control panels security control panels TV boxes e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV game consoles e.g. Xbox and PlayStation electronic dictionaries electronic keys camcorders or electronic picture frames.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic devices may include at least one of various medical devices e.g. various portable medical measurement devices e.g. blood glucose meters heart rate meters blood pressure meters or thermometers and the like a magnetic resonance angiography MRA a magnetic resonance imaging MRI a computed tomography CT scanners or ultrasonic devices and the like navigation devices global positioning system GPS receivers event data recorders EDRs flight data recorders FDRs vehicle infotainment devices electronic equipment for vessels e.g. navigation systems gyrocompasses and the like avionics security devices head units for vehicles industrial or home robots automatic teller s machines ATMs points of sales POSs or internet of things e.g. light bulbs various sensors electric or gas meters sprinkler devices fire alarms thermostats street lamps toasters exercise equipment hot water tanks heaters boilers and the like .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic devices may include at least one of parts of furniture or buildings structures electronic boards electronic signature receiving devices projectors or various measuring instruments e.g. water meters electricity meters gas meters or wave meters and the like . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic devices may be one or more combinations of the above mentioned devices. The electronic devices according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be flexible electronic devices. Also the electronic devices according to various embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited to the above mentioned devices and may include new electronic devices according to technology development

Hereinafter the electronic devices according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. The term user used herein may refer to a person who uses an electronic device or may refer to a device e.g. an artificial electronic device which uses an electronic device.

Referring to an electronic device may perform an acoustic output function using a speaker of the electronic device and an acoustic input function using a microphone of the electronic device . The electronic device may output a call voice or an acoustic signal e.g. music a movie sound and the like associated with a media output through the speaker. The electronic device may collect a user voice or an external acoustic signal through the microphone.

The electronic device may output an acoustic signal or may collect an acoustic signal around the electronic device through an acoustic input and output device e.g. an ear speaker or an ear microphone and the like included in an auxiliary accessory device e.g. an earphone a headset and the like . Hereinafter an embodiment of the present disclosure is exemplified as an earphone connects to the electronic device . However the scope and spirit of the present disclosure may not be limited thereto.

The electronic device may include a connector . The connector may be implemented in a form which becomes concave in an inner direction of the electronic device . An ear jack connected with the earphone may be inserted into the connector . The connector may be implemented with a form corresponding to the ear jack and may include a terminal corresponding to each terminal included in the ear jack .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure if the ear jack is inserted into the connector the electronic device may output an acoustic signal for recognizing a type of the ear jack through at least one of a speaker hereinafter referred to as a main speaker not shown included in the electronic device or an ear speaker mounted on the earphone . The electronic device may collect the acoustic signal through at least one of a microphone hereinafter referred to as a main microphone not shown mounted on the electronic device or an ear microphone if the earphone includes the ear microphone and may recognize a type of the ear jack according to the collected signal. Additional information about an ear jack recognition method through the output of the acoustic signal of the electronic device may be provided with reference to .

The ear speaker may convert an electric signal for outputting an acoustic signal into a sound and may output the converted sound. A user of the electronic device may insert the ear speakers into his or her ears and may listen to a sound output from the electronic device .

The ear microphone may collect an acoustic signal around the electronic device . The ear microphone may be spaced from the ear speaker at a predetermined distance e.g. 15 centimeters to 20 centimeters . If the user inserts the ear speaker into his or her ears the ear microphone may be disposed in a point corresponding to a position of the mouth of the user.

The connection part may connect between components of the earphone e.g. between the ear speaker and the ear microphone and between the ear microphone and the ear jack . The connection part may include a wire for transmitting an electric signal to the inside.

The ear jack may connect to the connector by being inserted into the connector . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the ear jack may have a form of a three pole terminal or a four pole terminal. The three pole terminal may have a form including a ground terminal a right output terminal and a left output terminal. The four pole terminal may have a form in which a microphone terminal is added to the three pole terminal. If the ear jack is inserted into the connector an interruption hereinafter referred to as an insertion interruption by contact between terminals may occur. The insertion interruption may be used as a start signal for starting an operation in which the electronic device recognizes a type of the inserted ear jack .

Referring to an electronic device may include a connector a main speaker a main microphone an audio controller and a processor . Some of the connector the main speaker the main microphone the audio controller and the processor may be integrated or separated. For example the audio controller may be included in the processor and may be integrated with the processor .

The connector may be implemented to correspond to all of ear jacks of a three pole terminal and a four pole terminal. The electronic device may determine whether the ear jack of the three pole terminal is inserted into the connector or whether the ear jack of the four pole terminal including a microphone terminal is inserted into the connector . The electronic device may communicate a control signal or an acoustic input and output signal corresponding to each ear jack e.g. an ear jack of a four pole terminal or an ear jack of a three pole terminal with an earphone or

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure if the ear jack or is inserted into the connector an insertion interruption may occur due to contact between terminals. The insertion interruption may be used as a start signal for starting an operation in which the electronic device recognizes a type of the inserted ear jack or . The connector may provide a signal about the insertion interruption to the processor .

The main speaker may output an acoustic signal provided from the audio controller . If the ear jack or is inserted into the connector the main speaker may operate in a way selective or restrictive with respect to an ear speaker e.g. may output not a media acoustic signal but a predetermined acoustic signal .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure if the ear jack or is inserted into the connector the main speaker may output a predetermined acoustic signal for recognizing a type of the ear jack or . The acoustic signal output through the main speaker may be collected through at least one of an ear microphone if an earphone includes the ear microphone or a main microphone . The electronic device may determine a type of the ear jack or according to the collected acoustic signal.

The main microphone may collect an acoustic signal around the electronic device . The main microphone may be used in an application such as a call app or a voice record app. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the main microphone may collect a signal output from the main speaker or the ear speaker . The collected acoustic signal may be used to determine a type of the ear jack or

The audio controller may perform signal conversion and data processing for inputting and outputting an acoustic signal. The audio controller may perform a function of converting a sound output or collected through the main speaker or the main microphone into an electronic signal or a signal of a predetermined format. The audio controller may provide the converted signal to the processor . And the audio controller may receive and process a control signal or an acoustic signal from the processor .

The processor may provide a control signal or an acoustic signal to the audio controller . If an insertion interruption occurs the processor may provide a control signal for recognizing an ear jack to the audio controller . An embodiment of the present disclosure is exemplified as the audio controller and the processor are divided according to their functions. However the scope and spirit of the present disclosure may not be limited thereto. For example the audio controller and the processor may be implemented with an integrated form.

The earphone or may connect to the electronic device by being inserted into the connector . The earphone may include the ear microphone and the earphone may not include a separate microphone. The earphone may include the ear jack of a three pole terminal which does not include a terminal for a separate microphone to be distinguished from the earphone

The earphone may include the ear speaker the ear microphone and the ear jack of the four pole terminal. The ear jack of the four pole terminal may include a microphone terminal MIC a ground terminal GND a right speaker terminal R and a left speaker terminal L. The earphone may include the ear speaker and the ear jack of the three pole terminal. The ear jack of the three pole terminal may include a ground terminal GND a right output terminal R and a left output terminal L.

If an insertion interruption occurs after the earphone or is inserted into the connector the electronic device may output a predetermined acoustic signal through at least one of the ear speaker or the main speaker . The output acoustic signal may be collected through at least one of the ear microphone or the main microphone . For one example if the earphone including the ear microphone connects to the connector the electronic device may compare an acoustic signal collected through the ear microphone with a previously stored acoustic signal or an acoustic signal collected through the main microphone and may recognize that the earphone of the four pole terminal connects to the connector .

For another example if the earphone which does not include a separate microphone connects to the connector the electronic device may not receive an acoustic signal through an ear microphone and may recognize that the earphone of the three pole terminal connects to the connector .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device which may connect to the earphone may include a connector into which an ear jack of the earphone is inserted an audio controller configured to process an acoustic signal a processor configured to control the audio controller and a memory configured to be functionally connected with the processor. The audio controller may output a first predetermined signal through an ear speaker of the earphone if an interruption occurs according to insertion of the ear jack. The processor may determine a type of the ear jack according to a second acoustic signal collected through an ear microphone which may be included in the earphone. The processor may compare the previously stored first acoustic signal with the second acoustic signal and may determine the type of the ear jack.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include a main speaker. The audio controller may output the first predetermined acoustic signal through at least one of the ear speaker or the main speaker.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include a main microphone. The processor may determine the type of the ear jack according to at least one of the second acoustic signal collected through the ear microphone or a third acoustic signal collected through the main microphone.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the main microphone may collect a noise signal around the electronic device. The audio controller may cancel the collected noise signal from the second acoustic signal. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the audio controller may further include an adaptive filter which receives feedback on a second acoustic signal in which the noise signal is cancelled.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the processor may compare the second acoustic signal with the third acoustic signal and may determine the type of the ear jack according to the compared result. The main microphone may collect a first acoustic signal output from the main speaker. The ear microphone may collect a first acoustic signal output from the ear speaker. The first acoustic signal may be an inaudible signal or an audible signal of a predetermined frequency or less. The first acoustic signal may be repeatedly output according to at intervals of a predetermined time.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the ear jack may have one of a form of a three pole terminal including a ground terminal a right output terminal and a left output terminal and a form of a four pole terminal including a microphone a ground terminal a right speaker terminal and a left speaker terminal.

Referring to if an ear jack is inserted into a connector in operation an insertion interruption may occur. The connector may transmit an insertion interruption signal or a signal corresponding to the insertion interruption to a processor . If receiving the insertion interruption signal the processor may provide a control signal for recognizing the ear jack to an audio controller .

In operation the processor may transmit a control signal for enabling an ear speaker and an ear microphone to the audio controller . The audio controller may maintain the ear speaker and the ear microphone in an operable state e.g. a state where an acoustic signal may be input or output according to the control signal.

In operation the audio controller may output a first predetermined acoustic signal through the ear speaker or a main speaker . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the first acoustic signal may be an inaudible signal or an audible signal of a predetermined frequency or less.

In operation the ear microphone may collect a second acoustic signal. The ear microphone may mainly collect the first acoustic signal output from the ear speaker or the main speaker . However the scope and spirit of the present disclosure may not be limited thereto. For example the ear microphone may collect a noise signal and the like around an earphone .

In operation the processor may determine whether the second acoustic signal collected through the ear microphone is similar to the previously stored first acoustic signal.

In operation if the first acoustic signal is similar to the second acoustic signal e.g. if similarity between the first acoustic signal and the second acoustic signal is greater than or equal to a predetermined value the processor may determine that an ear jack of a four pole terminal is inserted into the connector . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure if the ear microphone is included in the earphone e.g. an earphone of the first acoustic signal and the second acoustic signal may be similar to each other.

In operation if the first acoustic signal and the second acoustic signal are not similar to each other e.g. if the similarity between the first acoustic signal and the second acoustic signal is less than the predetermined value the processor may determine that an ear jack of a three pole terminal is inserted into the connector . If an ear microphone is not included in the earphone e.g. an earphone of since there is no signal collected through the ear microphone the first acoustic signal and the second acoustic signal may not be similar to each other.

Referring to an earphone may include an ear speaker an ear microphone a connection part and an ear jack . The ear speaker and the ear microphone may be spaced apart from each other at a predetermined distance e.g. 15 centimeters to 20 centimeters and may connect through the connection part .

If receiving an insertion interruption signal from a connector a processor may provide a control signal for recognizing the ear jack to an audio controller . The audio controller may output a first predetermined acoustic signal through the ear speaker or a main speaker . The output first acoustic signal may be introduced into the ear microphone .

The processor may determine whether a second acoustic signal collected through the ear microphone is similar to the first acoustic signal stored in an internal memory of an electronic device . If the first acoustic signal and the second acoustic are similar to each other the processor may determine that an ear jack of a four pole terminal is inserted into the connector .

Although not illustrated in since an earphone of a three pole terminal e.g. an earphone of does not include a separate microphone the earphone of the three pole terminal may not collect the first acoustic signal output through the ear speaker or the main speaker . In this case a second acoustic signal introduced through a microphone terminal of the connector may be in a state where a constant value is maintained or a state where there is no separately collected signal . The processor may determine that an ear jack of a three pole terminal is inserted into the connector by determining that the first acoustic signal and the second acoustic are not similar to each other.

Referring to an audio controller may output a first predetermined acoustic signal through an ear speaker . The output first acoustic signal may be introduced into an ear microphone .

A noise signal around the electronic device may be simultaneously introduced into the ear microphone and a main microphone . The ear microphone may collect a signal in which the noise signal is combined to the first acoustic signal . The main microphone may collect a signal corresponding to the noise signal .

The audio controller may cancel the signal collected through the main microphone from the signal collected through the ear microphone and may output a second acoustic signal using a subtractor .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the audio controller may further include an adaptive filter . After the second acoustic signal is fed back to the adaptive filter the adaptive filter may improve performance of noise cancellation by reducing difference between a noise collected through the main microphone and a noise collected through the ear microphone . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a noise cancellation function using the subtractor and the adaptive filter may be processed through a separate controller separated from the audio controller .

The processor may determine whether the second acoustic signal is similar to the first acoustic signal stored in an internal memory of the electronic device . If the first acoustic signal and the second acoustic signal are similar to each other the processor may determine that an ear jack of a four pole terminal is inserted into the connector . If the first acoustic signal and the second acoustic signal are not similar to each other the processor may determine that an ear jack of a three pole terminal is inserted into the connector .

Referring to if an ear jack is inserted into a connector in operation an insertion interruption may occur. The connector may transmit an insertion interruption signal to a processor . If receiving the insertion interruption signal the processor may provide a control signal for recognizing the ear jack to an audio controller .

In operation the processor may transmit a control signal for enabling an ear speaker an ear microphone a main speaker and a main microphone to the audio controller . The audio controller may maintain the ear speaker the ear microphone the main speaker and the main microphone in an operable state according to the control signal.

In operation the audio controller may output a first predetermined acoustic signal through each of the ear speaker and the main speaker . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the first acoustic signal may be an inaudible signal or an audible signal of a predetermined frequency or less.

In operation the ear microphone and the main microphone may collect an acoustic signal respectively. The ear microphone may mainly collect an acoustic signal output from the ear speaker . However the scope and spirit of the present disclosure may not be limited thereto. For example the ear microphone may collect an acoustic signal output from the main speaker or a noise signal and the like around an earphone . The main microphone may mainly collect an acoustic signal output from the main speaker . However the scope and spirit of the present disclosure may not be limited thereto. For example the main microphone may collect an acoustic signal output from the ear speaker or a noise signal and the like around an electronic device .

In operation the processor may determine whether a second acoustic signal collected through the ear microphone is similar to a third acoustic signal collected through the main microphone .

In operation if the second acoustic signal and the third acoustic signal are similar to each other e.g. if similarity between the second acoustic signal and the third acoustic signal is greater than or equal to a predetermined value the processor may determine that an ear jack of a four pole terminal is inserted into the connector . For example if the ear microphone is included in the earphone e.g. an earphone of the second acoustic signal and the third acoustic signal may be similar to each other.

In operation if the second acoustic signal and the third acoustic signal are not similar to each other e.g. if the similarity between the first acoustic signal and the second acoustic signal is less than the predetermined value the processor may determine that an ear jack of a three pole terminal is inserted into the connector . For example if an ear microphone is not included in the earphone e.g. an earphone of since there is no signal collected through the ear microphone the second acoustic signal and the third acoustic signal may not be similar to each other.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the ear jack recognition method performed in the electronic device may include outputting a first predetermined acoustic signal if an insertion interruption of an ear jack connected to an earphone occurs and determining a type of the ear jack according to a second acoustic signal collected through an ear microphone of the earphone in response to the first acoustic signal. The determining of the type of the ear jack may include comparing the first acoustic signal previously stored in a memory included in the electronic device with the second acoustic signal and determining the type of the ear jack according to the compared result.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the outputting of the first acoustic signal may include outputting the first acoustic signal through at least one of an ear speaker of the earphone and a main speaker of the electronic device.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the determining of the type of the ear jack may include collecting the second acoustic signal through the ear microphone collecting a third acoustic signal through a main microphone of the electronic device and determining the type of the ear jack according to at least one of the second acoustic signal or the third acoustic signal.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the determining of the type of the ear jack may include collecting a noise signal around the electronic device through the main microphone and cancelling the collected noise signal from the second acoustic signal. The cancelling of the collected noise signal may include receiving feedback on a second acoustic signal in which the noise signal is cancelled.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the determining of the type of the ear jack may include comparing the second acoustic signal with the third acoustic signal. The comparing of the second acoustic signal with the third acoustic signal may include collecting a first acoustic signal output from a main speaker of the electronic device through the main microphone and collecting a first acoustic signal output from an ear speaker of the earphone through the ear microphone.

Referring to an earphone may include an ear speaker an ear microphone a connection part and an ear jack . The ear speaker and the ear microphone may be spaced apart from each other at a predetermined distance e.g. 15 centimeters to 20 centimeters and may connect through the connection part .

The electronic device may include a connector a main speaker a main microphone an audio controller and a processor . In an embodiment of the present disclosure is exemplified as the main speaker is disposed in a rear surface of the electronic device and the main microphone is disposed at a lower side of the electronic device . However the scope and spirit of the present disclosure may not be limited thereto.

If receiving an insertion interruption signal from the connector the processor may provide a control signal for recognizing the ear jack to the audio controller . The audio controller may output a first predetermined acoustic signal through each of the ear speaker and the main speaker . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the signal output through the ear speaker may be introduced into the ear microphone and the signal output through the main speaker may be introduced into the main microphone .

The processor may determine whether a second acoustic signal collected through the ear microphone is similar to a third acoustic signal collected through the main microphone . If the second acoustic signal and the third acoustic signal are similar to each other the processor may determine that the ear jack of the four pole terminal is inserted into the connector .

Although not illustrated in in case of an earphone of a three pole terminal e.g. an earphone of the earphone may not collect the output first acoustic signal . In this case a second acoustic signal introduced through a microphone terminal of the connector may be in a state where a constant value is maintained or a state where there is no collected signal . Therefore the processor may determine that the second acoustic signal introduced through the microphone terminal of the connector is not similar to the third acoustic signal collected through the main microphone . The processor may determine that the ear jack of the three pole terminal is inserted into the connector .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the processor may determine whether a first noise signal collected through the ear microphone is similar to a second noise signal collected through the main microphone and may determine a type of the ear jack . If a noise signal around the electronic device has a predetermined value or more the processor may collect a noise signal through each of the ear microphone and the main microphone and may compare the collected noise signals with each other. If the collected noise signals are similar to each other the processor may recognize the ear jack as the ear jack of the four pole terminal. If the collected noise signals are not similar to each other the processor may recognize the ear jack as the ear jack of the three pole terminal.

Referring to an audio controller may output a first predetermined acoustic signal through each of an ear speaker and a main speaker . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the signal output through the ear speaker may be introduced into the ear microphone and the signal output through the main speaker may be introduced into the main microphone .

A processor may determine whether a second acoustic signal collected through the ear microphone is similar to a third acoustic signal collected through the main microphone through a subtractor . As shown in if the second acoustic signal and the third acoustic signal are similar to each other an output signal through the subtractor may be attenuated and may have a level of less than a predetermined value. In this case the processor may determine that an ear jack of a four pole terminal is inserted into a connector by determining that the second acoustic signal and the third acoustic signal are similar to each other.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the audio controller may further include an adaptive filter . The adaptive filter may improve signal comparison performance by receiving feedback on the output signal

Referring to the audio controller may output a first predetermined acoustic signal through each of the ear speaker and the main speaker . Since an earphone having an ear jack of a three pole terminal may not include a separate ear microphone a second acoustic signal may have a signal of a simple direct current DC level.

The processor may determine whether the second acoustic signal collected through a microphone terminal of the connector is similar to a third acoustic signal collected through the main microphone through a subtractor . As shown in if the second acoustic signal and the third acoustic signal are not similar to each other an output signal through the subtractor may not be attenuated and may have a level of a predetermined value or more. In this case the processor may determine that the ear jack of the three pole terminal is inserted into the connector by determining that the second acoustic signal and the third acoustic signal are not similar to each other.

Referring to an electronic device in a network environment is described according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. The electronic device may include a bus a processor a memory an input and output interface a display and a communication interface . In various embodiments of the present disclosure at least one of the components of the electronic device may be omitted from the electronic device or another component may be additionally included in the electronic device .

The bus may be for example a circuit which may connect the components to with each other and may transmit communication e.g. a control message and or data between the components.

The processor e.g. a processor of may include one or more a central processing unit CPU an application processor AP and a communication processor CP . The processor may execute for example calculation or data processing about control and or communication of at least another component of the electronic device .

The memory may include a volatile memory and or a non volatile memory. For example the memory may store instructions or data associated with at least another component of the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the memory may store software and or a program . The program may include for example a kernel a middleware an application programming interface API and or an application program or an application . At least part of the kernel the middleware or the API may be referred to as an operating system OS .

The kernel may control or manage for example system resources e.g. the bus the processor or the memory and the like used to execute an operation or function implemented in the other programs e.g. the middleware the API or the application program . Also as the middleware the API or the application program accesses a separate component of the electronic device the kernel may provide an interface which may control or manage system resources.

The middleware may play a role as for example a go between such that the API or the application program communicates with the kernel to communicate data with the kernel .

Also the middleware may process one or more work requests received from the application program according to priority. For example the middleware may provide priority which may use system resources e.g. the bus the processor or the memory and the like of the electronic device to at least one of the application program . For example the middleware may perform scheduling or load balancing for the one or more work requests by processing the one or more work requests according to the priority provided to the at least one of the application program .

The API may be for example an interface in which the application program controls a function provided from the kernel or the middleware . For example the API may include at least one interface or function e.g. instruction for file control window control image processing or text control and the like.

The input and output interface may play a role as for example an interface which may transmit instructions or data input from a user or another external device to another component or other components of the electronic device . Also input and output interface may output instructions or data received from another component or other components of the electronic device to the user or the other external device.

The display may include for example a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display a microelectromechanical systems MEMS display or an electronic paper display. The display may display for example a variety of content e.g. text images videos icons or symbols and the like to the user. The display may include a touch screen and may receive for example touch gesture proximity or a hovering input using an electronic pen or part of a body of the user.

The communication interface may establish communication between for example the electronic device and an external device e.g. a first external electronic device a second external electronic device or a server . For example the communication interface may connect to a network through wireless communication or wired communication and may communicate with the external device e.g. the second external electronic device or the server .

The wireless communication may use for example at least one of long term evolution LTE LTE advanced LTE A code division multiple access CDMA wideband CDMA WCDMA universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS wireless broadband WiBro or global system for mobile communications GSM and the like as a cellular communication protocol. Also the wireless communication may include for example local area communication . The local area communication may include for example at least one of wireless fidelity Wi Fi communication Bluetooth BT communication near field communication NFC or global positioning system GPS communication and the like. The wired communication may include at least one of for example universal serial bus USB communication high definition multimedia interface HDMI communication recommended standard 232 RS 232 communication or plain old telephone service POTS communication and the like. The network may include a telecommunications network for example at least one of a computer network e.g. a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN the Internet or a telephone network.

Each of the first and second external electronic devices and may be the same as or different device from the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the server may include a group of one or more servers. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure all or some of operations executed in the electronic device may be executed in another electronic device or a plurality of electronic devices e.g. the first and second external electronic devices and or the server . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure if performing any function or service automatically or according to a request the electronic device may request another device e.g. the first and second external electronic devices and or the server to perform at least a partial function associated with the function or service rather than executing the function or service for itself or in addition to the function or service. The other electronic device e.g. the first and second external electronic devices and or the server may execute the requested function or the added function and may transmit the executed result to the electronic device . The electronic device may process the received result without change or additionally and may provide the requested function or service. For this purpose for example cloud computing technologies distributed computing technologies or client server computing technologies may be used.

Referring to the electronic device may include for example all or part of an electronic device shown in . The electronic device may include one or more application processors APs a communication interface a subscriber identification module SIM card a memory a sensor an input device a display an interface an audio controller a camera a power management a battery an indicator and a motor .

The AP may drive for example an operating system OS or an application program to control a plurality of hardware or software components connected thereto and may process and compute a variety of data. The AP may be implemented with for example a system on chip SoC . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP may further include a graphic processing unit GPU not shown and or an image signal processor not shown . The AP may include at least some e.g. a cellular interface of the components shown in . The AP may load instructions or data received from at least one of other components e.g. a non volatile memory to a volatile memory to process the data and may store various data in a non volatile memory.

The communication interface may have the same or similar configuration as or to that of a communication interface of . The communication interface may include for example the cellular interface a wireless fidelity Wi Fi interface a Bluetooth BT interface a global positioning system GPS interface a near field communication NFC interface and a radio frequency RF interface .

The cellular interface may provide for example a voice call service a video call service a text message service or an Internet service and the like through a communication network. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular interface may identify and authenticate the electronic device in a communication network using a SIM e.g. the SIM card . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular interface may perform at least some of functions which may be provided by the AP . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular interface may include a communication processor CP .

The Wi Fi interface the BT interface the GPS interface or the NFC interface may include for example a processor for processing data transmitted and received through the corresponding interface. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure at least some e.g. two or more of the cellular interface the Wi Fi interface the BT interface the GPS interface or the NFC interface may be included in one integrated chip IC or one IC package.

The RF interface may transmit and receive for example a communication signal e.g. an RF signal . Though not shown the RF interface may include for example a transceiver a power amplifier module PAM a frequency filter or a low noise amplifier LNA or an antenna and the like. According to another embodiment of the present disclosure at least one of the cellular interface the Wi Fi interface the BT interface the GPS interface or the NFC interface may transmit and receive an RF signal through a separate RF module.

The SIM card may include for example a card which includes a SIM and or an embedded SIM. The SIM card may include unique identification information e.g. an integrated circuit card identifier ICCID or subscriber information e.g. an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI .

The memory e.g. a memory of may include for example an embedded memory or an external memory . The embedded memory may include at least one of for example a volatile memory e.g. a dynamic random access memory DRAM a static RAM SRAM a synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM and the like or a non volatile memory e.g. a one time programmable read only memory OTPROM a programmable ROM PROM an erasable and programmable ROM EPROM an electrically erasable and programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a flash memory e.g. a NAND flash memory or a NOR flash memory and the like a hard drive or a solid state drive SSD .

The external memory may further include a flash drive for example a compact flash CF a secure digital SD a micro SD a mini SD an extreme digital xD or a memory stick and the like. The external memory may functionally and or physically connect with the electronic device through various interfaces.

The sensor may measure for example a physical quantity or may detect an operation state of the electronic device and may convert the measured or detected information to an electric signal. The sensor may include at least one of for example a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B a barometric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor H e.g. red green blue RGB sensor a biometric sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illumination sensor K or an ultraviolet UV sensor M. Additionally or alternatively the sensor may further include for example an e nose sensor not shown an electromyography EMG sensor not shown an electroencephalogram EEG sensor not shown an electrocardiogram ECG sensor not shown an infrared IR sensor not shown an iris sensor not shown and or a fingerprint sensor not shown and the like. The sensor may further include a control circuit for controlling at least one or more sensors included therein. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include a processor configured to control the sensor as part of the AP or to be independent of the AP . While the AP is in a sleep state the electronic device may control the sensor .

The input device may include for example a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input unit . The touch panel may recognize a touch input using at least one of for example a capacitive detecting method a resistive detecting method an infrared detecting method or an ultrasonic detecting method. Also the touch panel may further include a control circuit. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer and may provide a tactile reaction to a user.

The digital pen sensor may be for example part of a touch panel or may include a separate sheet for recognition. The key may include for example a physical button an optical key or a keypad. The ultrasonic input unit may allow the electronic device to detect a sound wave using a microphone e.g. a microphone and to verify data through an input tool generating an ultrasonic signal.

The display e.g. a display of may include a panel a hologram device or a projector . The panel may include the same or similar configuration as or to that of the display . The panel may be implemented to be for example flexible transparent or wearable. The panel and the touch panel may be integrated into one panel. The hologram device may show a stereoscopic image in a space using interference of light. The projector may project light onto a screen to display an image. The screen may be positioned for example inside or outside the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram device or the projector .

The interface may include for example a high definition multimedia interface HDMI a universal serial bus USB an optical interface or a D subminiature . The interface may be included in for example a communication interface shown in . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include for example a mobile high definition link MHL interface an SD card multimedia card MMC interface or an infrared data association IrDA standard interface.

The audio controller e.g. an audio controller of may convert a sound and an electric signal in dual directions. At least some of components of the audio controller may be included in for example an input and output interface shown in . The audio controller may process sound information input or output through for example a speaker a receiver an earphone or the microphone and the like. The microphone included in the audio controller may collect audio data which may be used as input information and remote authentication information or local authentication information.

The camera may be a device which captures a still image and a moving image. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the camera may include one or more image sensors not shown e.g. a front sensor or a rear sensor a lens not shown an image signal processor ISP not shown or a flash not shown e.g. an LED or a xenon lamp .

The power management may manage for example power of the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure though not shown the power management may include a power management integrated circuit PMIC a charger IC or a battery or fuel gauge. The PMIC may have a wired charging method and or a wireless charging method. The wireless charging method may include for example a magnetic resonance method a magnetic induction method or an electromagnetic method and the like. An additional circuit for wireless charging for example a coil loop a resonance circuit or a rectifier and the like may be further provided. The battery gauge may measure for example the remaining capacity of the battery and voltage current or temperature thereof while the battery is charged. The battery may include for example a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator may display a specific state of the electronic device or part e.g. the AP thereof for example a booting state a message state or a charging state and the like. The motor may convert an electric signal into mechanical vibration and may generate vibration or a haptic effect and the like. Though not shown the electronic device may include a processing unit e.g. a GPU for supporting a mobile TV. The processing unit for supporting the mobile TV may process media data according to standards for example a digital multimedia broadcasting DMB standard a digital video broadcasting DVB standard or a MediaFlo standard and the like.

Each of the above mentioned elements of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be configured with one or more components and names of the corresponding elements may be changed according to the type of the electronic device. The electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the above mentioned elements some elements may be omitted from the electronic device or other additional elements may be further included in the electronic device. Also some of the elements of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be combined with each other to form one entity thereby making the electronic device possible to perform the functions of the corresponding elements in the same manner as before the combination.

Referring to according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the program module e.g. a program of may include an operating system OS for controlling resources associated with an electronic device e.g. an electronic device of and or various applications e.g. an application of which are executed on the OS. The OS may be for example Android iOS Windows Symbian Tizen or Bada and the like.

The program module may include a kernel a middleware an application programming interface API and or an application . At least part of the program module may be preloaded on the electronic device or may be downloaded from an external electronic device e.g. first and second external electronic devices and or a server of .

The kernel e.g. a kernel of may include for example a system resource manager and or a device driver . The system resource manager may control assign or collect and the like system resources. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the system resource manager may include a process management unit a memory management unit or a file system management unit and the like. The device driver may include for example a display driver a camera driver a Bluetooth BT driver a shared memory driver a universal serial bus USB driver a keypad driver a wireless fidelity Wi Fi driver an audio driver or an inter process communication IPC driver.

The middleware e.g. a middleware of may provide for example functions the application needs in common and may provide various functions to the application through the API such that the application efficiently uses limited system resources in the electronic device. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the middleware e.g. the middleware may include at least one of a runtime library an application manager a window manager a multimedia manager a resource manager a power manager a database manager a package manager a connectivity manager a notification manager a location manager a graphic manager or a security manager .

The runtime library may include for example a library module used by a compiler to add a new function through a programming language while the application is executed. The runtime library may perform a function about input and output management memory management or an arithmetic function.

The application manager may manage for example a life cycle of at least one of the application . The window manager may manage graphic user interface GUI resources used on a screen of the electronic device. The multimedia manager may ascertain a format necessary for reproducing various media files and may encode or decode a media file using a codec corresponding to the corresponding format. The resource manager may manage source codes of at least one of the application and may manage resources of a memory or a storage space and the like.

The power manager may act together with for example a basic input output system BIOS and the like may manage a battery or a power source and may provide power information necessary for an operation of the electronic device. The database manager may generate search or change a database to be used in at least one of the application . The package manager may manage installation or update of an application distributed by a type of a package file.

The connectivity manager may manage for example wireless connection such as Wi Fi connection or BT connection and the like. The notification manager may display or notify events such as an arrival message an appointment and proximity notification by a method which is not disturbed to the user. The location manager may manage location information of the electronic device. The graphic manager may manage a graphic effect to be provided to the user or a user interface UI related to the graphic effect. The security manager may provide all security functions necessary for system security or user authentication and the like. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when the electronic device e.g. the electronic device has a phone function the middleware may further include a telephony manager not shown for managing a voice or video communication function of the electronic device.

The middleware may include a middleware module which configures combinations of various functions of the above described components. The middleware may provide a module which specializes according to kinds of OSs to provide a differentiated function. Also the middleware may dynamically delete some of old components or may add new components.

The API e.g. an API of may be for example a set of API programming functions and may be provided with different components according to OSs. For example in case of Android or iOS one API set may be provided according to platforms. In case of Tizen two or more API sets may be provided according to platforms.

The application e.g. an application program of may include one or more of for example a home application a dialer application a short message service multimedia message service SMS MMS application an instant message IM application a browser application a camera application an alarm application a contact application a voice dial application an e mail application a calendar application a media player application an album application a clock application a health care application e.g. an application for measuring quantity of exercise or blood sugar and the like or an environment information application e.g. an application for providing atmospheric pressure information humidity information or temperature information and the like and the like.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the application may include an application hereinafter for better understanding and ease of description referred to as information exchange application for exchanging information between the electronic device e.g. the electronic device and an external electronic device e.g. first and second external electronic devices and of . The information exchange application may include for example a notification relay application for transmitting specific information to the external electronic device or a device management application for managing the external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application may include a function of transmitting notification information which is generated by other applications e.g. the SMS MMS application the e mail application the health care application or the environment information application and the like of the electronic device to the external electronic device e.g. the first and second external electronic devices and . Also the notification relay application may receive for example notification information from the external electronic device and may provide the received notification information to the user of the electronic device.

The device management application may manage e.g. install delete or update for example at least one e.g. a function of turning on off the external electronic device itself or partial components or a function of adjusting brightness or resolution of a display of functions of the external electronic device e.g. the first and second external electronic devices and which communicates with the electronic device an application which operates in the external electronic device or a service e.g. a call service or a message service provided from the external electronic device.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the application may include an application e.g. the health card application of a mobile medical device which is preset according to attributes of the external electronic device e.g. the first and second external electronic devices and . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the application may include an application received from the external electronic device e.g. the server or the first and second external electronic devices and . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the application may include a preloaded application or a third party application which may be downloaded from a server. Names of the components of the program module according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may differ according to kinds of OSs.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure at least part of the program module may be implemented with software firmware hardware or at least two or more combinations thereof. At least part of the program module may be implemented e.g. executed by for example a processor e.g. a processor of . At least part of the program module may include for example a module a program a routine sets of instructions or a process and the like for performing one or more functions.

Each of the above mentioned elements of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be configured with one or more components and names of the corresponding elements may be changed according to the type of the electronic device. The electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the above mentioned elements some elements may be omitted from the electronic device or other additional elements may be further included in the electronic device. Also some of the elements of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be combined with each other to form one entity thereby making the electronic device possible to perform the functions of the corresponding elements in the same manner as before the combination.

The terminology module used herein may mean for example a unit including one of hardware software and firmware or two or more combinations thereof. The terminology module may be interchangeably used with for example terminologies unit logic logical block component or circuit and the like. The module may be a minimum unit of an integrated component or a part thereof. The module may be a minimum unit performing one or more functions or a part thereof. The module may be mechanically or electronically implemented. For example the module may include at least one of an application specific integrated circuit ASIC chip field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or a programmable logic device which is well known or will be developed in the future for performing certain operations.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure at least part of the electronic device e.g. modules or the functions or the method e.g. operations may be implemented with for example instructions stored in a computer readable storage media which has a program module. When the instructions are executed by a processor e.g. a processor of one or more processors may perform functions corresponding to the instructions. The computer readable storage media may be for example a memory of .

The computer readable storage media may include a hard disc a floppy disk magnetic media e.g. a magnetic tape optical media e.g. a compact disc read only memory CD ROM and a digital versatile disc DVD magneto optical media e.g. a floptical disk a hardware device e.g. a ROM a random access memory RAM or a flash memory and the like and the like. Also the program instructions may include not only mechanical codes compiled by a compiler but also high level language codes which may be executed by a computer using an interpreter and the like. The above mentioned hardware device may be configured to operate as one or more software modules to perform operations according to various embodiments of the present disclosure and vice versa.

Modules or program modules according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one or more of the above mentioned components some of the above mentioned components may be omitted or other additional components may be further included. Operations executed by modules program modules or other elements according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be executed by a successive method a parallel method a repeated method or a heuristic method. Also some operations may be executed in a different order or may be omitted and other operations may be added.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may recognize a type of an ear jack using an original function of a microphone without adding a circuit.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may recognize a type of an ear jack using a noise cancellation function in a situation where a noise occurs around the electronic device.

Although the present disclosure has been described with an exemplary embodiment various changes and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art. It is intended that the present disclosure encompass such changes and modifications as fall within the scope of the appended claims.

