---

title: Smarter electronic reader
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention provide methods, computer program products, and systems for enriching and customizing one or more portions of textual content. Embodiments of the present invention analyze one or more portions of the textual content and customize the textual content based on preferences of a user interacting with the textual content. Embodiments of the present invention can present customized or original textual content to users requesting textual content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09471564&OS=09471564&RS=09471564
owner: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
number: 09471564
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160304
---
The present invention relates generally to the field of content enrichment and more particularly to enriching textual content based on characteristics of a user.

Textual content may be presented electronically to a user of a computer system subsequent to fulfilling the user s request to receive the textual content. The manner in which the textual content is presented can be static and open to interpretation based at least in part on characteristics of the user. For example a first user e.g. a Spanish speaking user and a second user e.g. an experienced financial expert may request to receive the same textual content e.g. newspaper article magazine e book etc. . In this instance the first and the second user will be presented with unmodified static textual content regardless of differences between the users e.g. comprehensive ability language barrier subject matter exposure etc. .

According to an embodiment of the present invention a method for enriching textual content based on characteristics of a user is provided. A computer authenticates an identify of a user and retrieves a user profile that corresponds to the identity of the user. The computer analyzes the user profile to determine a textual content preference contained within the user profile and determines the textual content preference is that a scientific terminology is to be displayed in a predetermined language. The computer receives a content to be displayed and identifies a language that is used in the content to be displayed wherein the language of the content is different than the predetermined language. The computer analyzes the content by parsing a text contained within the content to identify any scientific terminology phrases contained within the text of the content and determines an equivalent phrase in the predetermined language for each of identified scientific terminology phrases contained within the text of the content. The computer modifies the content by replacing each of identified scientific terminology phrases contained within the text of content with the equivalent phrases in the predetermined language. The computer displays the modified content wherein the displayed content contains both the predetermined language and the language of the content.

Embodiments of the present invention provide efficient and cost effective systems and methods for enriching and customizing one or more portions of textual content based at least in part on characteristics of a user of a computer system. Embodiments of the present invention provide systems and methods that can selectively translate and modify one or more portions of the textual content. In this manner as discussed in greater detail later in this specification embodiments of the present invention can be used to extend capabilities of computer systems that are involved in presenting textual content to one or more users by providing customized textual content to the one or more users.

Computer system includes interface services repository basic translator flow controller sensory interface profile database and advanced translator . In this embodiment computer system presents textual content to a user of computer system . For example the user of computer system may be a student reading an e textbook on computer system e.g. an e reader . Furthermore there may be an author and or publisher of the e textbook as well as a supervisor that may supervise the student. As discussed in greater detail later in this specification the user of computer system author and or publisher of the textual content and supervisor of the user of computer system may all affect a manner in which computer system presents the textual content to the user of computer system . Computer system exchanges data e.g. textual content to be presented to the user user preferences etc. between content providers via network .

Interface is a program that provides an interface between a user of computer system and a plurality of applications that reside on the client device. A user interface such as interface refers to the information such as graphic text and sound that a program presents to a user and the control sequences the user employs to control the program. A variety of types of user interfaces exist. In one embodiment interface is a graphical user interface. A graphical user interface GUI is a type of user interface that allows users to interact with electronic devices such as a computer keyboard and mouse through graphical icons and visual indicators such as secondary notation as opposed to text based interfaces typed command labels or text navigation. In computing GUIs were introduced in reaction to the perceived steep learning curve of command line interfaces which require commands to be typed on the keyboard. The actions in GUIs are often performed through direct manipulation of the graphical elements. In another embodiment interface is a script or application programming interface API . As discussed in greater detail herein the user of computer system interacts with interface to access and select available textual content. Accordingly interface presents available textual content to the user of computer system . The phrase available textual content as used herein refers to textual content that the user of computer system has granted access to interact with e.g. read write etc. . In this embodiment the user of computer system is granted access if the user has purchased the textual content the textual content was provided by an author and or publisher the textual content was provided by a supervisor etc.

Services provide data from various services e.g. social analytics reader profiles etc. to be leveraged by computer system . In this embodiment a social analytics service provides data from computer system to social media services. For example using the social analytics service computer system can update status information on social media services such as Completed Read BOOK TITLE or Reader Joe Doe has read ten fantasy books this summer. In this embodiment a reader profile service provides data from profile database to a third party service. The data provided is based at least in part on profile information stored in profile database such as age interests location and preference information. The preference information may include one or more books that interest a user of computer system favorite genres of the user of computer system alteration trends attentiveness trends etc. In another example the social analytics service may receive an indication from a social media network that a user of computer system has recently won a chess tournament. In this instance services provide this information from the social media network to computer system . Accordingly computer system may leverage this information in subsequent processing of textual content to make the textual content more customized for the user of computer system i.e. ensure that a book that the user of computer system is reading does not provide novice descriptions and or examples of chess .

Repository contains catalogs of textual content e.g. books articles magazines etc. and sets of customization rules that correspond to respective instances of textual content. For example authors and or publishers of textual content may specify a unique set of customization rules to control an extent to which the corresponding textual content can be altered. In another example a set of customization rules may prevent individual customization of textual content but may include alternate textual content that may be used for customization instead. Stated differently an author may provide rules that specify to use alternative textual content for customization and prohibit individual customization for a user of computer system .

Basic translator manipulates one or more portions of textual content. In this embodiment a user of computer system interacts with e.g. reads annotates etc. textual content e.g. an e book on computer system . Furthermore basic translator uses a translation map to translate one or more portions of textual content between two or more different languages based at least in part on user preferences stored in profile database . For example a user of computer system may be not be proficient in English but may be reading an English news article on computer system . In this instance the user of computer system may have user preferences stored in profile database indicating that all non technical advanced level English words are to be translated to a Spanish equivalent. Accordingly basic translator changes textual content of textual media to meet language preferences of a user of computer system .

Flow controller interacts with interface services basic translator profile database advanced translator and content providers . In this embodiment flow controller includes a plurality of components such as a user profile updater a preference analysis component a supervisor control component a book customization component and a book retriever component. The user profile updater creates updates and or stores preferences and information for profile database . The preference analysis component uses services and sensory interface to analyze user preferences. Subsequent to analyzing user preferences the preference analysis component updates profile database via the user profile updater. Components of computer system can utilize the preference analysis component to provide recommendations for different textual content to be presented to a user. The supervisor control component controls additional features for supervisors. For example in a classroom setting a student may be a user of computer system and his or her teacher may be a supervisor. In this instance the supervisor may use the supervisor control component to control features such as reading level alternative vocabulary assigned passages for reading etc. The book customization component interacts with interface to determine whether textual content requires customization based at least in part on user and author preferences stored in profile database . The book retriever component determines available textual content for a user of computer system .

Sensory interface includes one or more components e.g. camera GPS internal clock etc. to perform analytics and estimate an engagement level of a user of computer system . In this embodiment the engagement level represents a relationship between the user of computer system and a textual content that the user of computer system interacts with read annotate etc. . For example a high engagement level for the user of computer system may indicate that the user of computer system is absorbed by and is enthusiastic about their interaction with the textual content. Sensory interface uses one or more components to determine the engagement level for the user of computer system . For example the one or more components of sensory interface may include a front facing camera disposed upon computer system . In this instance sensory interface uses the front facing camera to determine the level of engagement for the user of computer system based on various factors e.g. monitoring eye movement to detect attentiveness and or sleepiness monitoring mouth movement to detect yawning monitoring orientation and positioning of computer system etc. . If the user of computer system has a low engagement level while interacting with the textual content then text content may be automatically modified to increase the engagement level of the user. In this embodiment information retrieved and analyzed by sensory interface are stored in repository .

Profile database contains one or more profiles for each of one or more users of computer system . In this embodiment profiles are created for users of computer system authors and or publishers of textual content and supervisors. Profile information can include user background information profile analysis information social background expertise user diction reading level secondary language level etc. In certain embodiments additional information e.g. proficiency in specific areas or fields etc. can be stored in profile database .

In yet another embodiment additional profile information may include preferred style of writing e.g. normal verbose abridged terse summary action romance descriptive etc. . Furthermore multiple profiles may be created for a single user of computer system . For example a user of computer system may have a first profile e.g. a school profile and a second profile e.g. a home profile . In this instance each profile is stored in profile database . Furthermore profiles can be updated in profile database to reflect changes in user preferences or profile information. Accordingly the user of computer system may select a profile to be used from profile database once the user begins to interact with textual content. In another embodiment the user of computer system can select different versions of the same profile. For example a user begins to read a fantasy novel starting in May 2014 using a first profile. In this instance sensory interface may detect a high level of engagement in which case a newer version of the first profile and associated metadata will be saved in profile database to create a second profile. Later when the user of computer system begins to interact e.g. read other textual content the user of computer system can select either the first or the second profile to be activated. It should be understood that associated metadata may include information that describes aspects of the textual content or customization of the textual content that made the user of computer system engaged.

Network can be for example a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or a combination of the two and include wired wireless or fiber optic connections. In general network can be any combination of connections and protocols that will support communications between content providers and computer system in accordance with a desired embodiment of the invention.

Content providers interacts with computer system and components therein via network . In this embodiment content providers provide textual content requested by a user of computer system . A book retrieval component of flow controller grants the user of computer system access to requested textual content if the requested textual content is available textual content as previously discussed. Additionally content providers include various social media tools and news feeds that are accessed to obtain and update preference settings e.g. supplemental user preference settings from social media analytics etc. 

In step computer system authenticates a user of computer system . An authenticated user of computer system has access to available textual content. In this embodiment computer system uses interface to provide information e.g. username password etc. to authenticate the user of computer system . In other embodiments the user of computer system may authenticate the user of computer system in a different manner. For example computer system can utilize facial recognition technologies to authenticate the user of computer system . It should be understood that for subsequent operational steps described in e.g. step to step the user of computer system is an authenticated user of computer system .

In step computer system displays a list of the available textual content to the user of computer system . In this embodiment the user of computer system interacts with interface for access to the available textual content. In one embodiment one or more users of computer system use computer system . In this instance unique textual content may be displayed to each of the one or more users of computer system based at least in part on the available textual content for each of the one or more users of computer system . As previously discussed computer system displays the list of available textual content which includes textual content that the user of computer system has purchased and or was provided by an author and or publisher.

In step computer system receives profile information based at least in part on authentication information of the user provided in step or on a profile selection made by the user of computer system . For example the authentication information provided by the user of computer system may be associated with one or more profiles for the user of computer system . Accordingly the provided authentication information is associated with profile information for the user of computer system . In this embodiment the user of computer system interacts with interface to select an existing profile stored in profile database . In one embodiment the user of computer system may interact with interface to create a new profile store the new profile in profile database and select the newly created profile. Each profile may be associated with unique profile information describing user background information profile analysis information social background expertise user diction reading level secondary language level etc. Accordingly after the user of computer system uses interface to select an existing profile or create a new profile computer system receives profile information associated with the profile.

In step computer system grants access to textual content requested by the user of computer system . In this embodiment the user of computer system interacts with interface to select textual content to interact with read annotate translate etc. . The textual content requested by the user of computer system is stored in repository and is provided to the user of computer system via interface . In certain embodiments the user of computer system may select textual content that is not an available textual content to the user of computer system . In this instance interface may alert the user of computer system that the textual content requested is not available textual content. Furthermore the user of computer system may interact with computer system to obtain the requested textual content.

In step computer system determines whether to customize the requested textual content. In this embodiment flow controller and components therein analyze the selected profile and the requested textual content. Furthermore flow controller may reference a set of customization rules e.g. customization rules provided by an author publisher of textual content and or supervisor that correspond to the requested textual content stored in repository . In one embodiment referencing the set of customization rules corresponding to the requested textual content can help determine an extent to customize the requested textual content. For example the set of customization rules may prevent individual customization of textual content but may include alternate textual content that computer system can use for customization instead. In another embodiment sensory interface may determine that the user of computer system has a low engagement level when interacting with the textual content. In this instance flow controller and components therein e.g. book customization component preference analysis component etc. determine a manner in which to customize the textual content such that the user of computer system will experience an increased engagement level.

In response to computer system determining to customize the requested textual content step yes branch then computer system customizes the textual content step . In this embodiment computer system customizes the textual content using basic translator and or advanced translator as described in and .

In response to computer system determining not to customize the requested textual content step no branch then computer system does not customize the requested textual content step .

Accordingly computer system presents the requested textual content to the user of computer system . In one embodiment computer system presents customized textual content to the user of computer system step . In another embodiment computer system presents original requested textual content to the user of computer system step .

In step computer system analyzes profile information. As previously discussed computer system receives profile information based at least in part on user authentication or a profile selection made by the user of computer system in step of . In this embodiment flow controller and components therein e.g. book customization component preference analysis component etc. analyze the selected profile. Furthermore computer system uses the analyzed profile information in subsequent processing for determining a manner to customize the requested textual content. For example the analyzed profile information may indicate that the user of computer system practices basic vocabulary words in Spanish. In this instance flow controller and components therein may determine to customize the requested textual content such that the user of computer system may increase user s proficiency in Spanish vocabulary.

In step computer system analyzes the requested textual content to determine a manner in which to customize the requested textual content. In this embodiment computer system uses various content analysis tools e.g. natural language processing semantic analysis etc. to analyze the requested textual content. For example computer system may analyze the requested textual content by parsing the requested textual content into one or more portions of textual content e.g. words phrases etc. . The one or more portions of textual content in addition with analyzed profile information can be used in subsequent processing to determine a manner to customize the one or more portions of the textual content.

In step computer system accesses a translation map stored in repository . Furthermore basic translator uses the translation map and the one or more portions of textual content to customize e.g. translate the one or more portions of textual content between two or more different languages based at least in part on analyzed profile information. Implementing basic translator to customize the one or more portions of textual content enables the user of computer system to more easily understand customized e.g. translated vocabulary and phrases presented in the original requested textual content. For example the original requested textual content may be in the user of computer system s primary language. In this instance the user of computer system may indicate e.g. via profile selection that the user of computer system wishes to learn a secondary language. Accordingly computer system utilizes basic translator to customize the original textual content in accordance with analyzed profile information. In certain embodiments computer system references the set of customization rules that correspond to the requested textual content to determine an extent to customize the requested textual content.

In step basic translator customizes e.g. translates one or more portions of textual content between languages. In certain embodiments computer system can perform additional customization of the requested textual content based on the analyzed profile information e.g. reading level vocabulary context etc. . Accordingly computer system utilizes advanced translator to perform additional customization of the requested content as described in greater detail with regard to . It should be understood that computer system may present the customized textual content to the user of computer system prior to additional customization or subsequent to additional customization. In both instances the extent of customization provided by basic translator and advanced translator can be modified in accordance with the user of computer system preference.

In step computer system receives analyzed profile information. Computer system can utilize analyzed profile information for customization of the requested textual content e.g. and additional customization of the requested textual content e.g. . In this embodiment computer system can use different portions of the analyzed profile information for additional customization of the requested content. For example the analyzed profile information used for additional customization of the requested textual content may describe different information e.g. reading level comprehension level genre preference style preference additional secondary language preferences etc. .

In step computer system analyzes the requested textual content. As previously discussed computer system may analyze the requested textual content by parsing the requested textual content into one or more portions of textual content e.g. words phrases etc. . The one or more portions of textual content in addition with analyzed profile information can be used in subsequent processing to determine a manner for additional customization of the one or more portions of the textual content. In certain embodiments computer system uses the one or more portions of textual content stored in repository as a result of prior processing e.g. step .

In step computer system leverages advanced translator capabilities. In this embodiment computer system uses advanced translator for additional customization of the one or more portions of the textual content. Advanced translator can perform additional customization at smaller or larger portions of the textual content e.g. words phrases sentences passages etc. . Examples of advanced translator capabilities may include modifying one or more portions of the textual content to raise or lower reading level e.g. may be performed by exchanging vocabulary words altering smaller or larger portions of the textual content such that the textual content is directed towards a preferred genre or storyline preference customizing one or more portions of the textual content to translate between writing eras e.g. translating Old English textual content into modern English etc.

In step computer system presents the requested textual content to the user of computer system . In this embodiment one or more portions of the requested textual content may have not underwent any customization underwent customization and or underwent additional customization. Accordingly the user of computer system may interact with the requested textual content via interface .

Computer system includes communications fabric which provides for communications between one or more processors memory persistent storage communications unit and one or more input output I O interfaces . Communications fabric can be implemented with any architecture designed for passing data and or control information between processors such as microprocessors communications and network processors etc. system memory peripheral devices and any other hardware components within a system. For example communications fabric can be implemented with one or more buses.

Memory and persistent storage are computer readable storage media. In this embodiment memory includes random access memory RAM and cache memory . In general memory can include any suitable volatile or non volatile computer readable storage media. Software e.g. basic translator flow controller etc. is stored in persistent storage for execution and or access by one or more of the respective processors via one or more memories of memory .

Persistent storage may include for example a plurality of magnetic hard disk drives. Alternatively or in addition to magnetic hard disk drives persistent storage can include one or more solid state hard drives semiconductor storage devices read only memories ROM erasable programmable read only memories EPROM flash memories or any other computer readable storage media that is capable of storing program instructions or digital information.

The media used by persistent storage can also be removable. For example a removable hard drive can be used for persistent storage . Other examples include optical and magnetic disks thumb drives and smart cards that are inserted into a drive for transfer onto another computer readable storage medium that is also part of persistent storage .

Communications unit provides for communications with other computer systems or devices via a network e.g. network . In this exemplary embodiment communications unit includes network adapters or interfaces such as a TCP IP adapter cards wireless Wi Fi interface cards or 3G or 4G wireless interface cards or other wired or wireless communication links. The network can comprise for example copper wires optical fibers wireless transmission routers firewalls switches gateway computers and or edge servers. Software and data used to practice embodiments of the present invention can be downloaded to computer system through communications unit e.g. via the Internet a local area network or other wide area network . From communications unit the software and data can be loaded onto persistent storage .

One or more I O interfaces allow for input and output of data with other devices that may be connected to computer system . For example I O interface can provide a connection to one or more external devices such as a keyboard computer mouse touch screen virtual keyboard touch pad pointing device or other human interface devices. External devices can also include portable computer readable storage media such as for example thumb drives portable optical or magnetic disks and memory cards. I O interface also connects to display .

Display provides a mechanism to display data to a user and can be for example a computer monitor. Display can also be an incorporated display and may function as a touch screen such as a built in display of a tablet computer.

The present invention may be a system a method and or a computer program product. The computer program product may include a computer readable storage medium or media having computer readable program instructions thereon for causing a processor to carry out aspects of the present invention.

The computer readable storage medium can be a tangible device that can retain and store instructions for use by an instruction execution device. The computer readable storage medium may be for example but is not limited to an electronic storage device a magnetic storage device an optical storage device an electromagnetic storage device a semiconductor storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. A non exhaustive list of more specific examples of the computer readable storage medium includes the following a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a static random access memory SRAM a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM a digital versatile disk DVD a memory stick a floppy disk a mechanically encoded device such as punch cards or raised structures in a groove having instructions recorded thereon and any suitable combination of the foregoing. A computer readable storage medium as used herein is not to be construed as being transitory signals per se such as radio waves or other freely propagating electromagnetic waves electromagnetic waves propagating through a waveguide or other transmission media e.g. light pulses passing through a fiber optic cable or electrical signals transmitted through a wire.

Computer readable program instructions described herein can be downloaded to respective computing processing devices from a computer readable storage medium or to an external computer or external storage device via a network for example the Internet a local area network a wide area network and or a wireless network. The network may comprise copper transmission cables optical transmission fibers wireless transmission routers firewalls switches gateway computers and or edge servers. A network adapter card or network interface in each computing processing device receives computer readable program instructions from the network and forwards the computer readable program instructions for storage in a computer readable storage medium within the respective computing processing device.

Computer readable program instructions for carrying out operations of the present invention may be assembler instructions instruction set architecture ISA instructions machine instructions machine dependent instructions microcode firmware instructions state setting data or either source code or object code written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The computer readable program instructions may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider . In some embodiments electronic circuitry including for example programmable logic circuitry field programmable gate arrays FPGA or programmable logic arrays PLA may execute the computer readable program instructions by utilizing state information of the computer readable program instructions to personalize the electronic circuitry in order to perform aspects of the present invention.

Aspects of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer readable program instructions.

These computer readable program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. These computer readable program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable storage medium that can direct a computer a programmable data processing apparatus and or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the computer readable storage medium having instructions stored therein comprises an article of manufacture including instructions which implement aspects of the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer readable program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other device to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other device to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer other programmable apparatus or other device implement the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of instructions which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . In some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or carry out combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The descriptions of the various embodiments of the present invention have been presented for purposes of illustration but are not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the embodiments disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The terminology used herein was chosen to best explain the principles of the embodiment the practical application or technical improvement over technologies found in the marketplace or to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the embodiments disclosed herein.

