---

title: Zero-wait publishing, searching, and queuing systems and methods
abstract: Zero-wait publishing, searching, and queuing systems and methods are disclosed. The system includes a local retail service engagement application installed on a mobile device. The application requests a service from a service provider system. The application receives data associated with a service provider from the service provider system, transmits a request for a reservation, receives a confirmation of the reservation, transmits a queue request to a queuing system, and receives a confirmation of the queue request. The application determines a physical location of the mobile device, calculates a distance between the mobile device and the service provider, and transmits an estimated arrival time. When the mobile device arrives, the queuing system searches for the mobile device. The system further includes an identification, location and authentication system. The service provider system receives authentication and the relative location of the mobile device and retrieves the reservation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09646325&OS=09646325&RS=09646325
owner: CloudTraQ LLC
number: 09646325
owner_city: Las Vegas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160520
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 62 165 134 62 165 138 62 165 140 and 62 165 142 all filed May 21 2015 the entire contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.

The present invention generally concerns systems and methods for enhancing communication and engagement between user devices and service providers. More specifically the invention discloses systems and methods for identifying locating and authenticating devices and users zero wait publishing searching and queuing searching and subscribing to advertisements and virtual teleportation.

Online gaming is gaining popularity but regulations of online gaming present numerous challenges to online gaming service providers. For example currently a user is not allowed to participate in online gaming unless the user is within the borders of a state that has legalized such gaming. As such online gaming providers must use geo location technology to determine the user s location. Geo location technologies help online service providers with geo fencing that is placing an invisible fence around the borders of a location e.g. a state a building or other property etc. outside of which services are unavailable to users. However because different service providers use different technologies to determine users locations the user experience may differ amongst different service providers.

It is believed that as many as forty percent of potential users within legal gaming jurisdictions are either not able to verify location compliance or are inadvertently kicked off a site mid game due to discrepancies with geo locating services. With traditional cell ID and GPS geo locating services there is no reliable way to guarantee that the identity of a user is less than five miles of a geo fencing border. With such poor accuracy service providers typically opt to disallow a user to participate even though that user may be within a legal gaming border rather than accept the risk that the user may not be within the legal border. Currently the standard is to disallow players within five miles of a state border to account for worst case cellular location error limitations. An example of an existing gaming network is described in U.S. Ser. No. 12 618 529 entitled Gaming Control System filed on Nov. 13 2009 by Gregory T. Dewitt.

Furthermore consumers rely on their mobile devices to provide relevant content and communication with service providers now more than ever before. Consumers are beginning to expect service providers to anticipate and meet their needs based on their individual situations in real time. This expectation must be balanced against users general reluctance to supply service providers with sensitive personal information. Moreover service providers in all fields desire to provide users with a better user experience cost effectively advertise and deliver services to users more efficiently maximize profits and increase the goodwill associated with their brands. However existing mobile technologies are not being leveraged effectively to provide enhanced consumer experiences while improving service providers access to and engagement with relevant consumers.

Additionally the use of digital signage in advertisements by retailers and other service providers is growing rapidly on a global scale. Moreover local radio frequency beaconing technology is being adopted to allow interaction between mobile devices and digitally published content over signage monitors. However the technology still caters primarily to users who are physically present at or near a service provider s location or venue e.g. traditional foot traffic and those with beaconing applications running at point of touch with the monitor. There is a need to extend the value proposition of the traditional digital signage model to include mobile users through cloud and sensor actuator nodes.

In one aspect of the present invention a system is disclosed. The system includes a local retail service engagement application installed on a mobile device connected to a cellular network channel. The local retail service engagement application transmits a search request for a service over a radio frequency network channel to at least one service provider system. The local retail service engagement application further receives data associated with a service provider from the at least one service provider system in response to the search request. The local retail service engagement application further transmits a request for a reservation with the service provider. The local retail service engagement application further receives a confirmation of the reservation from the service provider system transmits a queue request over the radio frequency network channel to a queuing system and receives a confirmation of the queue request from the queuing system. The local retail service engagement application further determines a physical location of the mobile device calculates a distance between the mobile device and a physical venue associated with the service provider and transmits an estimated arrival time at one or more predefined intervals while the mobile device is in transit to the physical venue. When the mobile device arrives at the physical venue the queuing system transmits a request to the local retail service engagement application to trigger a local radiofrequency network channel activation on the mobile device. The queuing system further transmits a request to search for the mobile device through the local radiofrequency network channel. The system further includes an identification location and authentication system including a master sensor node connected to a broadband network channel wherein the service provider is simultaneously connected to the broadband network channel and a plurality of sensors in the physical venue. The plurality of sensors is in communication with the master sensor node over a wireless network channel. The plurality of sensors and the master sensor node are communicatively coupled to the mobile device over the local radiofrequency network channel when the mobile device is present at the physical venue. The master sensor node identifies the mobile device and a relative location of the mobile device within a predetermined range of at least one of the plurality of sensors or the master sensor node. The master sensor node authenticates an absolute location of the mobile device the master sensor node or plurality of sensors and authenticates a relative location of the mobile device to the at least one service provider system. The at least one service provider system receives authentication and the relative location of the mobile device and retrieves the reservation.

In another aspect of the present invention a method is disclosed. A local retail service engagement application installed on a mobile device is provided the mobile device connected to a cellular network channel. The local retail service engagement application transmits a search request for a service over a radio frequency network channel to at least one service provider system receives data associated with a service provider from the at least one service provider system in response to the search request transmits a request for a reservation with the service provider and receives a confirmation of the reservation from the service provider system. The local retail service engagement application further transmits a queue request over the radio frequency network channel to a queuing system receives a confirmation of the queue request from the queuing system determines a physical location of the mobile device calculates a distance between the mobile device and a physical venue associated with the service provider and transmits an estimated arrival time at one or more predefined intervals while the mobile device is in transit to the physical venue. When the mobile device arrives at the physical venue the queuing system transmits a request to the local retail service engagement application to trigger a local radiofrequency network channel activation on the mobile device and transmits a request to search for the mobile device through the local radiofrequency network channel. One or more master sensor nodes are provided in a physical venue the one or more master sensor nodes connected to a broadband network channel. A plurality of sensors is provided in the physical venue the plurality of sensors in communication with the one or more master sensor nodes over node over a wireless network channel. The plurality of sensors and the one or more master sensor nodes are communicatively coupled to a mobile device over a radio frequency network channel. The plurality of sensors and the master sensor node are communicatively coupled to the mobile device over the local radio frequency network channel when the mobile device is present at the physical venue. The one or more master sensor nodes identifies the mobile device and a location associated with the mobile device. The mobile device is within a predefined distance from the one or more master sensor nodes. The one or more master sensor nodes authenticates an absolute location of the mobile the master sensor node or plurality of sensors. The one or more master sensor nodes authenticates a relative location of the mobile device to the at least one service provider system. The one or more master sensor nodes receives authentication and the relative location of the mobile device. The one or more master sensor nodes retrieves the reservation.

In yet another aspect of the present invention a method is disclosed. A services management system determines that a mobile device is within a predetermined range of a master sensor node. The services management system transmits a request to a master sensor node management server to obtain a service profile and loads the service profile on the master sensor node. The services management system automatically pairs the mobile device with the master sensor node. The services management system loads a dynamic hybrid application on the mobile device. An authentication profile authenticates the mobile device to a service provider. The services management system checks in the mobile device with the service provider and retrieves a reservation associated with the mobile device at the service provider. The dynamic hybrid application displays the reservation on the mobile device.

Embodiments of the present invention provide systems and methods for identifying locating and authenticating devices and users zero wait publishing searching and queuing searching and subscribing to advertisements and virtual teleportation. Persons of ordinary skill in the art will realize that the following description of the presently invention is illustrative only and not in any way limiting. Other embodiments of the invention will readily suggest themselves to such skilled persons.

The inventions described herein provide improved systems and methods for identifying locating and authenticating devices and users to one another and or to third party service providers. The system is location sensitive and tamper resistant to facilitate efficient and secure identification location and authentication services. Additionally zero wait publishing searching and queuing systems and methods are disclosed. Users may utilize this system to search for service providers and make reservations or join a queue leveraging the identification location and authentication services. Other systems and methods disclosed herein allow users to search and subscribe to service providers. The system facilitates more efficient advertising by service providers allowing service providers to target specific consumers with relevant messages deals and offers. Finally systems and methods utilizing virtual teleportation are disclosed herein which allow users to perform enhanced and more relevant searching based on absolute location of service providers even where the user is remote from the service provider.

According to the present invention a system may include any combination of an identification location and authentication system a zero wait publishing system a searching and subscribe system and a virtual teleportation system. See .

Internet of Things IoT is becoming established as a viable technology for smart city and smart retail growth. IoT has socially desirable benefits and possesses characteristics for mass viral adoption. In a world of increasing internet connectedness identity of things and identity of people connecting to things is becoming of primary importance to ensure that trust security and predictability of service rivals that of traditional land and online services. Augmented reality AR is a nascent but promising technology utilizing tangible user interface features that can enhance consumer experience and decision parameters not easily extracted from traditional browser based search and mapping services.

Hyper relevance is an emerging area of technology that seeks to integrate different technological solutions in real time to provide users with better value and an improved user experience. The value can come in the way of cost savings more efficient delivery of services or better more relevant engagement with service providers. Essentially this new technology seeks to give consumers what they want when they want it and however they want it.

Big data the collection of voluminous amounts of structured semi structured and unstructured data stored and analyzed for both known and unknown patterns and having the potential to be mined for information will continue to increase but provide more value when integrated with small specific datasets created from evolving IoT sensor actuator use cases. Small data a dataset that contains very specific attributes generated largely by IoT sensors actuators and used to determine current states and conditions of managed systems and services will increase with expansive deployment of standards based IoT devices services and management systems. Small data collected by IoT sensor actuator devices is real time can tell specifics such as location temperature wetness pressure or vibration and can trigger events based on what is happening in real time. Those events can be merged with behavioral or trending information derived from machine learning algorithms run against big data datasets to improve or increase security or productivity of business or work processes.

Retail and mobile commerce Process Intelligence data that has been systematically collected to analyze the individual steps within a business process will be enhanced by the mass adoption of IoT devices their services and real time Small data pools. The tuning and analysis of IoT generated process intelligence will fuel new jobs systems and services to better serve smart cities and advance mobile commerce industry.

API management the process of publishing promoting and overseeing application programming interfaces APIs in a secure scalable environment including API creation of end user support resources that define and document the API are becoming of primary importance to growth and mass adoption of IoT based services. Small context demographic and user profile datasets collected by IoT is stimulating need for big data integration on a scale not available by traditional app build methodologies.

HTML5 code can be written once and then run on any device including IOS Android Windows Mobile etc. . HTML5 applications apps utilize native device features such as a camera or an accelerometer and use device APIs such as Apache Cordova. These apps are also packaged for distribution by the various app stores.

The Bluetooth receiver system is the onboard system that scans the area for Bluetooth device traffic records available data and writes to onboard SD card. The data is then made available to onboard software for parsing manipulating and sending to the database via Zigbee radio system.

The Zigbee transceiver system is an onboard system that reads the SD card for new scanned Bluetooth frame data places it in the Zigbee transceiver payload and sends over Zigbee radio waves to the server head end for database storage and processing.

Micro electro mechanical systems MEMS motions and tamper resistant security system is the onboard system that senses device motion and or tampering and locks all access to normal service usage between the user and the network. It also is responsible for sending alerts to the operator to contact the user player or suspend service until re calibration or compliance is restored.

The identification location and authentication systems and methods disclosed herein may be used to locate mobile devices and identifying individuals to facilitate providing efficient and secure services. By integrating these systems and methods with other known location based technologies such as MEMS GPS IP and cellular online and wireless connected retail services can be initiated with a very high degree of identity and physical location certainty offering more accurate geo fence calculations within feet of a geo fence border as well as stronger security features for more trusted player guest or patron identity and geographic compliance.

The systems and methods of the present invention may require multi factor authentication for additional security including any combination of the following factors an absolute location of one or more devices e.g. mobile device sensor nodes login credentials digital certificates e.g. username password which may be managed within a standard public key infrastructure PKI network hardware identification e.g. a mobile device ID a master sensor node ID MAC addresses UUIDs and user identification biometrics e.g. fingerprint scanning facial recognition via a camera motion signature and the like . Multi factor authentication is particularly valuable for third party service providers who require an absolute location factor to ensure geo fenced service compliance such as those in regulated industries like the gaming industry. In addition to geo location use of the present invention with existing technologies allows service providers to authenticate the identity and age of a user and provides for improved digital rights management. Additionally tamper proof measures are included in the present invention to prevent avoidance of or disruption to geo location services.

The system may utilize open standard user accounts via Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP e.g. Microsoft Active Directory linked with an online PKI Registration Authority RA function for encryption of digital certificates which provides quick validation and user enrollment from existing social network member accounts.

In one embodiment of the present invention the system may store and statistically determine location based on historical and live geospatial scan data in addition to relying on internal mobile device resident sensor mechanisms e.g. MEMS camera microphone etc. to maintain location accuracy in case of wireless service interruption. If used autonomously i.e. not networked the system may be capable of advertising its identity location and calibration status to any requesting local network connected device for the purpose of providing a location factor or setting a mobile device absolute location remotely. In this embodiment the mobile device may provide a bridge between the autonomous sensor and the cloud.

Referring now to illustrating the architecture of an identification location and authentication system according to one embodiment of the present invention one or more master sensor nodes may be located in a physical venue . The physical venue may be any physical venue such as a retail store a casino a hotel or a guest room inside a hotel a restaurant a theater and the like. The physical venue may also be a user s home or within a vehicle. In one embodiment the one or more master sensor nodes may be placed on a person or animal instead of a physical venue .

The one or more master nodes may be IoT radio frequency actuator nodes. In an alternate embodiment the one or more master nodes may comprise a smart device running a system service profile enabling the smart device to mimic a sensor. In this embodiment the smart device would provide a bridge function between a mobile device and a master sensor node . The one or more master sensor nodes may be connected to a broadband network channel for cloud communications optionally with a wireless LAN or a broadband cellular connection.

Referring now to illustrating the architecture of an exemplary master sensor node according to one embodiment of the present invention each of the one or more master sensor nodes may include an accelerometer for motion sensing a global positioning system GPS for self calibration an Ethernet port that may connect the node to a router for Internet access a USB port an SD card for storing collected data a solar panel for self powering during outdoor use a camera for security motion sensing and identity a battery that may be rechargeable a temperature sensor a service status indicator which may be an audio indicator or an LED indicator a Wi Fi radio for sensing authentication communications and local wireless network connectivity a Bluetooth or BLE radio for sensing authentication and communicating a Zigbee radio for sensing authenticating communicating and bridging the Internet and an Ultra Wide Band UWB radio for sensing authenticating communicating positioning and sensor network calibration services.

The master sensor node may be connected to a physical venue SaaS or cloud system or service such as a registration system check in system queuing system POS system payment system online gaming transaction system PMS system CMS system LMS system streaming video system or similar through a published API. Services associated with the master sensor node may be distributed remotely through a network connected management service such as a mobile wireless wireless LAN dial up modem or broadband internet based registration service using a web service or REST API to allow property company or world wide access to master sensor node services. The master sensor node may provide a publish subscription service to advertise its services to web services or other services on the local network or in the cloud. Physical venue SaaS or cloud system or services that subscribe to the master sensor node may receive periodic published information or search and retrieve information related to the service.

Referring again to one or more sensors may be placed within the physical venue . The sensors may be in communication with the one or more master sensor nodes over a wireless network channel . The sensors and the one or more master sensor nodes are communicatively coupled to a mobile device over a radio frequency network channel such as a Bluetooth or Wi Fi network. In one embodiment of the present invention any one of the sensors may take on the broadband channel and the function of a master sensor node . In yet another embodiment a sensor is hard wired to a master sensor node in the same box e.g. at a smaller venue such as a coffee shop .

The system may use a common network for the one or more master sensor nodes and the mobile device . However use of two out of band network channels provides greater security and accuracy. As shown in the one or more master sensor nodes may use a broadband network for cloud communications optionally with a wireless LAN connection and the mobile device uses a cellular wireless network .

A plurality of mobile devices may be pre registered with a third party service provider . Each mobile device may be registered by different users. One user may have multiple registered mobile devices . For example a user may register the mobile device when registering as a regulated gaming player of a gaming venue or as an online transaction participant of an e commerce provider.

The mobile device may be a mobile phone PDA smart watch or bracelet wireless headset Bluetooth enabled vehicle heads up display smart glasses or any other portable electronic device.

The mobile device acts as a physical authentication token. The one or more master sensor nodes or the one or more sensors may scan for radio frequency frames or RSSI signals e.g. Bluetooth Wi Fi Zigbee etc. . The one or more master sensor nodes or the one or more sensors may identify one or more factors associated with the mobile device such as a unique ID such as a MAC address or a UUID and an absolute location. The location may be calculated using positioning techniques such as trilateration or triangulation and may be identified by coordinates e.g. latitude and longitude or Cartesian coordinates . In one embodiment the mobile device is identified when it is within a predefined distance from the one or more master sensor nodes . In another embodiment a collaborative positioning technique may be used to improve mobile device location accuracy. In this case the master sensor nodes or the one or more sensors are integrated in a local radio frequency network with radio frequency beaconing nodes. By performing collaborative measures such as sensing radio frequency beaconing signals and calculating position from the mobile device in an unknown state and sensing the same beacons and performing the same calculations from the master sensor node from a known state an error delta can be create to apply to the mobile device unknown position calculation that may improve the position accuracy. In another embodiment the one or more master sensor nodes or the one or more sensors my scan simple radio frequency tags such as BLE beacons and published through the master sensor node API to allow property SaaS and cloud system and service access to assets staff guests and players while within the physical venue .

Once the mobile device has been identified a login session may be initiated. The login session may be automatic in that the user of the mobile device is not required to acknowledge a service access agreement. Alternatively the login session may be acknowledgement based requiring the user of the mobile device to acknowledge a service access agreement e.g. selecting an OK button on a notification window or the like . In yet another embodiment the login session may be multi factor requiring the user of the mobile device to provide further authenticating information prior to login.

After a login session has been initiated the mobile device may request the one or more master sensor nodes or the one or more sensors to authenticate the identity and the location of the mobile device to a third party service provider such as for example a hotel property management system a restaurant reservation system an e commerce service a streaming media service or a web based regulated gaming service. The third party service provider may be connected to the radio frequency network channel .

The one or more master sensor nodes or the one or more sensors may authenticate the mobile device to the third party service provider . In this case the one or more master sensor nodes or the one or more sensors are operating like an identity access management IAM function providing multi factor authenticated access to the service by using the mobile device as a multi factor authentication device or token. The third party service provider may receive authentication of the mobile device and provide the mobile device access to a network connection associated with the third party service provider e.g. Ethernet Wi Fi cellular etc. .

The one or more master sensor nodes or the one or more sensors may be geodetically positioned through a calibration process by one or a combination of one or more of the following methods 1 calibrated device position cloning from other sensors 2 GPS satellite positioning 3 indoor positioning algorithms 4 physical address geocoding 5 physical property surveying techniques 7 using Google Earth or maps 6 using high accuracy positioning technologies such as Ultra Wide Band UWB or 6 other manual methods.

Referring now to a flowchart of a calibration method that may be used with the system of and the master sensor node of is shown. At a first step a master sensor node may be taken outdoors within line of sight of GPS satellites i.e. in an area free of obstructions such as trees . At a second step a user performs an action such as pushing a calibration button or connecting through a mobile phone to obtain a current position of the master sensor node via GPS. Alternatively the user may manually input the coordinates of the master sensor node e.g. latitude and longitude coordinates or a physical address where the master sensor node is located. At a third step once the current position is received the service profile will allow a predetermined amount of time e.g. two minutes to seat the master sensor node in a stationary position in a network e.g. indoors connected to a router and or where motion may apply wirelessly coupled to another master sensor node where one or more of the master sensor nodes are continuously connected through GPS and at least one of the master sensor modes is bolted to the venue e.g. in a vehicle in a ship in an airplane in a space craft . At a fourth step the user will seat the master sensor node. At a fifth step the master sensor node will calibrate and be ready for operation. The master sensor node will continue to operate with a calibrated status as long as it is not moved from the stationary position for indoor use or able to obtain a GPS fix at a point of authentication for moving vehicles ships or crafts .

Referring now to a flowchart of a method for identification location and authentication of a mobile device that may be used with the system of is shown. At step a user of a mobile device downloads a client widget and registers a mobile device key through a system cloud registration service. At step the user searches and selects a service to reserve. At step the system cloud service acts as a third party certificate authority to provide a verification of identity during a sensor node queuing session reservation or other transaction process using the mobile device key. At step the user may initiate a queuing session or reservation with a master sensor node through a queuing or reservation system. At step the mobile device may have a known reusable key pin password or passphrase or may optionally create a unique one time password or identity key either of which may be encrypted. The one time password or identity key may be generated using known methods such as a random number generator or may be generated using a plurality of methods such as a combination of known identifiers such as a mobile device key UUID or MAC address and unknown identifiers that may be dynamically generated such as absolute locations or timestamps which may be delivered to the master sensor node. At step the master sensor node or at least one of a plurality of sensors may store the mobile device password and optionally use it for other purposes such as to represent a reservation number or queuing number or similar and that may be shared with other systems. At step the master sensor node may have a known reusable key pin password or passphrase or may optionally create a unique one time password or identity key either of which may be encrypted. The one time password or identity key may be generated using known methods such as a random number generator or may be generated or may be generated using a plurality of methods such as a combination of known identifiers such as a mobile device key UUID or MAC address and unknown identifiers that may be dynamically generated such as absolute locations or timestamps which may be delivered to the master sensor node or at least one of a plurality of sensors. At step the mobile device may store the sensor password or identity key and optionally may use it for other purposes such as to represent a reservation number or queuing number or a ticket or a coupon or similar and that may be shared with other systems. At step the reservation or queuing system may communicate with a sensor in communication with the master sensor node targeted by the mobile device to request a unique password or identity key from the sensor or optionally generate one for the sensor which may be used to represent a queuing number or reservation number or ticket or similar to share with the mobile device while simultaneously sharing the mobile device password or identity key which may be used to represent a unique reservation number or queuing number or similar with the sensor.

It is envisioned that nested reservations may be made such that a user could potentially plan out an entire day or evening with several back to back reservations at different venues. For instance the first reservation may be for a dinner table a second reservation for a vehicle to transport users from dinner to a movie theater a third reservation at the movie theater and so on. Those venues might communicate with one another to help the venues determine when a user will arrive. For instance if the user is running late at dinner the restaurant may notify the vehicle to delay the pick up time e.g. push the reservation 20 minutes . If a user finds a better deal at a different venue or changes his mind about a reservation the system may automatically cancel an existing reservation in order to allow the user to make an alternate reservation.

Once the user is on or within range of a property associated with the master sensor node at step the reservation system verifies that the master sensor node is equipped with the resources software or service profile s necessary to authenticate the mobile device and verifies that the mobile device is equipped with the necessary resources software or service profile s to authenticate the master sensor node. At step the master sensor node or one or more plurality of sensors begins to scan for radiofrequency frames while the mobile device advertises or vice versa . At step the sensor node detects the mobile device. At step wireless pairing of the mobile device and sensor occurs automatically. At step wireless authentication of the mobile device occurs automatically. At step the mobile device shares the unique one time password or identity key originally generated by and received from the master sensor node or the one or more sensors. The master sensor node or at least one plurality of sensors optionally decrypts the password or identity key and verifies it is the master sensor node or the one or more sensors unique password or identity key that was sent to the mobile device while simultaneously the mobile device shares the password or identity key it received from the master sensor node or the one or more sensors with the sensor which in turn optionally decrypts and verifies the password or identity key belongs to the sensor. The exchange of passwords between the mobile device and the master node sensor or one or more sensors may be accomplished using a local wireless interface such as Bluetooth or Wi Fi. Only the originating device has the private key to decrypt the encrypted one time passwords.

At step the master sensor node or the one or more sensors and the mobile device each decrypt and verify the password sent to each other. At step the master sensor node and the mobile device each share the verification information through their respective networks i.e. the master sensor node shares through a broadband network and the mobile device through a cellular network to the system cloud service. At step the system cloud service informs both the master sensor node and the mobile device that they are verified to operate.

At step the reservation system receives identity and location calibration verification from the master sensor node or the one or more sensors indicating that the master sensor node has not been moved or tampered with. At step the system cloud service authenticates the user and the absolute location of the mobile device to a third party service provider.

At step an automatic logout may be activated. The automatic logout may occur due to a variety of activities including for example when the user mobile device moves outside the sensor s range when the radio frequency radio on either the mobile device or the master sensor node is turned off or when a predetermined logout time has been reached.

The following non limiting industrial applications are envisioned although it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that many other applications are possible across a wide variety of industries 

It is envisioned that the systems and methods of the present invention may be useful for online regulated gaming. For instance users may engage in online gaming from their homes or from hotel guest rooms. A master sensor node may be linked to a home or guest network. After proper calibration of the master sensor node an accurate geo fence may be established within local wireless reach of the master sensor node s radio frequency land connection when a user s mobile device is connected to the system during service authentication and location validation.

Where proof of identity has been provided to a registration authority the system of the present invention may be used to authenticate card not present CNP payment transactions. Because more accurate factors e.g. biometric data may be used for authentication in the system of the present invention the authentication may be more accurate than traditional physical retail payment using a credit card and photo ID card which may ultimately reduce interchange fee charges. Online malware and identity theft risk can be reduced by insuring a mobile device is within the transactional venue.

The system of the present invention may be used to authenticate a user s mobile device to a transportation service provider such as a taxi rideshare or public transit driver and vice versa. Two way authentication and location verification may provide greater security to both the driver and the rider.

The present invention may be used at physical retail venue entrances and key zones of interest to allow a service provider of a physical venue e.g. a restaurant hotel or retail store to check a user into a guest room a table or provide coupons or loyalty points or benefits to the user upon arrival at the venue. Further the geo location technology may allow a service provider to offer or deliver services to a user within the physical venue e.g. delivering a drink or streaming or downloading a game movie or music upon request by the user .

The present invention may be used to allow a user of a mobile device to make a remote reservation with a service provider by utilizing the two way exchange of device keys over a shared network.

The zero wait publishing searching and queuing systems and methods disclosed herein may integrate sensor and actuator node technology for instance the identification location and authentication systems and methods with physical venue systems to allow mobile devices to search relevant offers make remote reservations and set up remote wireless queuing sessions with physical venues e.g. reserving a guest room or table . The systems and methods enable a user of a mobile device to search connect and engage with a physical venue e.g. a hotel restaurant casino or retail or a vehicle e.g. a taxi bus private limo service or rideshare service . The systems and methods may also allow a user to search for a service category e.g. coffee gas spa or bowling or an activity e.g. football live band party or parade similar to a web browser search but with location central to the search. The systems and methods may additionally offer subscription services to push offers and deals to mobile devices. Furthermore the systems and methods may provide reservation queuing check in check out engagement and transactions services to users without incurring wait time or added costs associated with traditional queue based venue services such as standing in lines.

The system differs from a web browser search by including the absolute location e.g. latitude and longitude coordinates established by standard positioning methods such as GPS IPS or INS of a service activity property or vehicle as a primary search attribute. Therefore users can view physical venues dynamically and information about associated services such as current wait times crowdedness seating availability and service duration can be established at a glance. Moreover by broadcasting a mobile device user s current position to a physical venue a virtual queuing service may be established that guarantees the user s reservation provides estimated time of arrival ETA feedback to the venue which may reduce the customer churn rate and eliminates waiting once the user arrives at the physical venue.

The systems and methods utilize a distributed cloud architecture built on industry standards such as service oriented architecture SOA microservices architecture software defined architecture SDA and mobile backend as a service MBaaS design principals for cloud interoperability scalability and reliability. The systems and methods also leverage an API management framework and gateway to ensure all devices and services may integrate through standard API communications. This allows dynamic real time access to data code and services without the need for redesign or modification of business logic. The mobile device user downloads a native mobile widget that is used to initiate searches and communicate schedules events and notifications between the user and the service provider through loose integration of cloud services and management software.

Referring now to the architecture of a zero wait publishing searching and queuing system is shown. A local retail service engagement application is installed on a mobile device . The mobile device is connected to a cellular network channel . The local retail service engagement application may transmit a search request for a service over a radio frequency network channel while searching a deal offer making a reservation and queuing on property over LAN e.g. at a casino resort or a cellular network channel while searching a deal offer making a reservation and queuing remotely over cellular e.g. at a casino resort to at least one service provider system . The local retail service engagement application may receive data associated with a service provider from the at least one service provider system in response to the search request. The local retail service engagement application may transmit a request for a reservation with the service provider and receive a confirmation of the reservation from the service provider system .

The local retail service engagement application may transmit a queue request to a queuing system over the radio frequency network channel or over the cellular network channel and receive a confirmation of the queue request from the queuing system .

The local retail service engagement application may determine a physical location of the mobile device calculate a distance between the mobile device and a physical venue associated with the service provider and transmit an estimated arrival time at one or more predefined distance or time intervals while the mobile device is in transit to the physical venue . The local retail service engagement application may include one or more search and service discovery views switchable by touch and or motion by the user of the mobile device .

When the mobile device arrives at the physical venue the queuing system may transmit a request to the local retail service engagement application to activate a local radio frequency network channel or a local radio frequency network channel on the mobile device . The queuing system may transmit a request to search for the mobile device through the local radio frequency network channel or through a local radio frequency network channel . A master sensor node may be connected to a broadband network channel wherein the service provider is simultaneously connected to the broadband network channel . A plurality of sensors may be located in the physical venue . The plurality of sensors may be in communication with the master sensor node over a wireless network channel such as local radiofrequency network channel the plurality of sensors and the master sensor node may be communicatively coupled to the mobile device over the local radiofrequency network channel when the mobile device is present at the physical venue . Alternatively the plurality of sensors may be communicatively coupled to the mobile over the local radio frequency network channel when the mobile device is present at the physical venue . The plurality of sensors may be in communication with the master sensor node over a wireless network channel such as local radiofrequency network channel . In this case the plurality of sensors may provide a communications gateway or bridge between the mobile device and the master sensor node .

The master sensor node or at least one of the plurality of sensors identifies the mobile device and a relative location of the mobile device within a predetermined range of at least one of the plurality of sensors or the master sensor node and authenticates the identity and relative location of the mobile device to the at least one service provider system . The at least one service provider system receives authentication and the relative location of the mobile device and retrieves the reservation.

Referring now to a flowchart of a remote reservation and queuing method is shown and shows exemplary user interfaces illustrating the steps of .

At step a user of a mobile device may install a local retail service engagement application on the mobile device. At step the user may use the local retail service engagement application to initiate a search for a service or venue by category and or location interface . For instance the user may optionally set a preferred city of interest or distance from the user s current location as a search parameter. A venue category may include for instance hotels casinos restaurants bars grocery stores gas stations and the like. A service category may include for instance shopping gaming bowling and the like. Additional search parameters filters permissions and user preferences may be set and modified by the user via the local retail service engagement application interface .

At step the local retail service engagement application may return a list of services and or venues to the mobile device for viewing by the user based on the user s search. In one embodiment of the present invention the user may view the list through an augmented reality AR camera view to gain a perspective of locations and directions to from a venue or service provider and to better determine costs timing and relevance of the items on the list interface . Alternatively the list may be presented in a list view interface or a map view interface .

At step the user may select an item from the list to see further information about the item such as deals offers or coupons available or services offered at a particular venue interface .

In an alternate embodiment of the present invention instead of a search request at step the user may subscribe to selected venue s by providing the user s contact information. At step periodically such as at predetermined intervals or as deals offers or services become available at the selected venue s they may be pushed automatically to the subscribed user s via the local retail service engagement application. At step the user may select an offer to see further information about the offer on the mobile device.

Whether the user performed a search pulled offers or subscribed pushed offers the user may select an offer to make a reservation with a venue or service provider and enter a virtual queue at step interface .

At step the absolute location speed of travel and estimated time of arrival ETA of the mobile device are determined via available geolocation technologies such as GPS cellular ID mobile motion sensors inertial navigation and APIs.

At step while the user is in route to the venue or service provider location a notification widget may be initiated on the mobile device. The notification widget serves two primary purposes. First the notification widget navigates and directs the mobile device to the venue or service provider location see step . Second the notification widget initiates check in and local service activation once the mobile device reaches the venue or service provider location see step . The notification widget may also facilitate communication and notifications between the venue service provider and the mobile device. While in the Queue the notification widget may also facilitate communications between competing service providers and the mobile device through the use of filters and broadcast notifications to create a hyper relevant mobile consumer value proposition between the mobile device user and the competing service providers which may result in the mobile device user receiving more competitive offers. Competing providers may choose to enter service and price bids allowing the service providers to enter an auction thus creating an atmosphere for better service efficiencies and prices

Referring now to the architecture of an exemplary mobile device is shown. Residing on mobile device is an operating system . Operating system may be independent of mobile device but may access mobile device sensor and communications resources e.g. through an API . Operating system includes several layers including 1 a cloud services management layer which handles reservations queuing identity and communications 2 an external data API aggregation management layer which provides property service context and demographic information to a decision engine 3 a mobile device inertial navigation system INS aggregation management layer which provides dynamic real time inertial sensor data to the decision engine for filtering 4 the decision engine which provides search functions filters and notifications logic and which can autonomously make decisions such as navigation way finding and recommendations and 5 a master sensor node connection and communications layer which provides proximity tracking presence awareness mobile device and user authentication local communications content delivery and check in services.

The cloud services management layer may include a cloud services management application which provides city global network and cloud level management services for mobile devices and master node sensor service reservations and queuing engagements. The cloud services management application may manage a number of databases including a node network spatial database a user and node account database a remote local node and device authentication database an IoT sensor actuator node publish subscribe content database an IoT sensor actuator node service profiles database and a deals services mobile application and HTML5 forms pages database.

The master sensor node connection and communications layer may include a node management asset and logistics services application which may be a venue local node s and venue location related services delivery and management platform. The node management application may handle all direct communications between IoT sensor actuator nodes and mobile device applications locally as well as indirect communications with mobile devices operating remotely through the cloud management application.

The node management application may be activated by one of the following conditions 1 a mobile device remotely requests access to a node and or its services through the cloud management application 2 an IoT sensor actuator node requests authentication of a mobile device locally or gains access to a service profile to provide service to a mobile device locally e.g. by Bluetooth Wi Fi etc. 3 the cloud management application requests key exchange for pairing bonding or local service profile assignment between a node and a mobile device remotely or 4 an operator service management application or third party application requests access to manage calibrate or control the node s network databases or services either directly through a monitoring or management user interface or indirectly through a service API.

Referring again to operating system hosts a hybrid mobile application . Hybrid mobile application includes the notification widget which provides service status metering notifications and communications.

Referring now to an exemplary notification widget is shown. Notification widget includes an inactive mode which may provide several quick launch buttons which may include venue search button reservations and queuing button secure chat button venue navigation button and deal payment button .

A venue connection mode shows services that may be provided via widget when the mobile device is present at the venue or service provider location including presentation of deals offers check in queuing and status updates.

A collaboration mode shows mobile to mobile services that may be provided via widget including follow me notifications instant messaging and group chats.

A queuing mode shows queuing services that may be provided via widget including virtual queuing ETA broadcasting and status updates.

A transaction mode shows digital payment services that may be provided via widget including loading money viewing balances making payments cashing out and payment or transaction history.

Referring again to stacks of HTML5 pages may be launched by the notification widget to aggregate data and control dynamic services relating to that data. The data may come from multiple sources including service APIs e.g. Google Geolocation API Foursquare or other reservation server and the like HTML5 user interfaces e.g. menus navigation ordering forms etc. IoT sensor actuator e.g. proximity or environmental control sensors a mobile device on board sensor e.g. GPS INS or MEMS and consumer engagement applications.

The result is that the internal details of a service are isolated from the user experience allowing modification or replacement of the application code without affecting the end user. This creates a distributed computing architecture servicing two sets of APIs external APIs for consumers and internal APIs for service providers. The internal APIs define a system s organization using management modules. The external APIs make the internal APIs more easily and safely consumable by various external services and present a simplified view of the operating system optimized for network communications over long distances.

Referring again to at step an estimated time of arrival ETA of the user at the venue or service provider is determined and broadcasted to the venue or service provider via the notification widget. In one embodiment of the present invention the ETA may be updated periodically or in real time based on changes to the location and or speed of travel of the mobile device and the updated ETA may be broadcasted to the venue or service provider. Simultaneously the notification widget may allow the user to view information from the mobile device regarding the reservation and virtual queue such as venue maps virtual queue status and updates thereto notifications group reservation information ETA status and check in information.

At step the notification widget may determine that the mobile device has reached the venue or service provider location using GPS cellular identification or other WAN method. The venue or service provider may set a range or threshold such that once the mobile device reaches the threshold or enters the range the mobile device will be considered to have arrived at the venue or service provider location. The notification widget will then turn on necessary local LAN radio such as Bluetooth or Wi Fi and initiate either a scan or advertisement beacon necessary to find or be found by a master sensor node or at least one of the plurality of sensors at the venue or service provider location.

Referring now to a flowchart of a local venue check in reservation redemption and transaction method is shown and shows exemplary user interfaces illustrating the steps of .

At step a services management system may determine that a mobile device is within a WLAN or WPAN radio frequency range. At step a services management system may transmit a request to a master sensor node management server to obtain an appropriate operational service profile. At step the services management system may load the service profile on the master sensor node or at least of the plurality of sensors. At step the mobile device may be automatically paired with the master sensor node.

At step the services management system may load a dynamic hybrid application such as HTML5 code on the mobile device to allow the mobile device to access and manage selected service profiles while the mobile device is present at the venue or service provider location. At step the mobile device may be authenticated by an authentication profile such as the one disclosed above.

At step the services management system may check the mobile device into the venue or service provider location and retrieve the reservation interface . At this point all services such as offers in door navigation or way finding order menus payment and server communications may be delivered by a third party or the services management system in the form of dynamic interactive web app pages such as those provided by HTML5 and made available to the mobile device on the dynamic hybrid application either through a secondary radio channel such as Wi Fi or Bluetooth or through a cellular channel.

Once the mobile device is checked into and engaged with the venue or the service provider the notification widget may update its status to connected and may track relevant information such as a network type e.g. Bluetooth Wi Fi cellular a connection type e.g. private network public network private collaboration a connection duration e.g. hours and minutes a name of venue or service provider and a service mode e.g. single group community and the like. So long as the mobile device is physically present and the network is active and operational on the mobile device the status will remain connected . Services provided to connected users may include for example product and service discounts and offers collaboration with staff for assistance communications with friends family and colleagues placing orders in app purchases on line purchases in store pickups appointments reservations scanning prices and mobile assisted in store retail purchases.

At step the notification widget sends a notification to the mobile device that a reservation is ready for the user e.g. a table a guest room or the like . A navigation map may be displayed so the user can self navigate to a location associated with the reservation within the venue interface . In one embodiment where the reservation is a reserved table menu ordering and payment pages may be displayed on the mobile device to allow for waiter less ordering by the user. In some embodiments after the mobile device is checked in a mobile guest room key or gaming VIP card may be accessible via the mobile device by the user interface . The notification widget may be updated to provide a connection status a session ID and event notification services.

At step when a service is complete the notification widget may receive and present a bill for payment by the user. The user may be able to make a mobile payment such as by a bar code scan payment a near field communication NFC payment a wireless network channel assisted payment using at least one of the plurality of sensors or a master sensor node or the like interface . A receipt may be generated and presented on the mobile device.

At step the mobile device is automatically disconnected from the network when the mobile device moves outside of the WLAN or WPAN radio frequency range. The disconnected state or in touch state which enables remote internet communications allows direct communications between the venue service provider and the mobile device based on filtered service selections. In touch mode provides relevant deals and offers while the mobile device is physically away from and not engaged with the venue or service provider and has no active service reservations. The filtering service is designed to allow non invasive and relevant notifications to the mobile device that escalate naturally with personal or professional relevance. For instance a user may be in the vicinity of a venue or service provider for an unrelated reason but may be interested to know what deals or offers are available in the area and set a filter appropriately.

In another embodiment the mobile device may be automatically checked out based on a predefined schedule user induced software logout or other criteria.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention live chat and mobile commerce services are delivered throughout the zero wait systems and methods including group collaboration and notification services. While on property geo fenced location sensitive content delivery location sensitive media streaming and private collaborations may be authenticated and delivered locally over a local area network e.g. Wi Fi Bluetooth etc. .

In some embodiments of the present invention improved advertisement systems and methods are disclosed to allow remote search and connection with content being delivered via digital signage to increase return on investment. An advertisement system includes a master sensor node which may be connected to a venue or other service provider location. The master sensor node acts as a virtual point of presence exposing its identity and absolute location e.g. latitude and longitude coordinates to users of mobile devices desiring specific services within a certain locality. The advertisement system may publish deals offers product content and interactive property services such as check in reservations menus and ordering information to mobile devices physically present at the venue or service provider location. The advertisements may be published in response to a search by a user on a mobile device pulled advertisements or they may be published to local or remote users who have subscribed to receive such advertisements via their mobile devices pushed advertisements . This type of connectivity between a service provider and mobile device users allows the service provider to create its own service broadcasting channel much like a YouTube channel but further including a feedback function by providing dialog connection with the mobile device e.g. instant messaging live chat phone e mail video conferencing etc. . An important difference between traditional advertising and the system of the present invention is that in the present invention the mobile device operates as a private signage monitor which allows the advertisement s to reach a much wider audience e.g. throughout a city or metropolitan area than traditional digital signage may reach.

Referring now to an advertisement system is disclosed. The system may include at least one identification location and authentication system associated with a physical venue . Each of the at least one identification location and authentication systems may include a master sensor node connected to a broadband or wireless local area network channel and a plurality of sensors in the physical venue . The plurality of sensors may be in communication with the master sensor node over the broadband or wireless local area network channel .

The master node or each of the plurality of sensors may be a physical IoT sensor actuator node that may be installed in an area that typically hosts traditional digital signage display. Like traditional digital signage the master node and the plurality of sensors may target an audience of a certain demographic with focused content associated with the physical venue and its associated services such as zero wait queuing or table reservations. A call to action may be included in the published advertisement s by the master node or the plurality of sensors that encourages a specific engagement or behavior by the user.

Unlike traditional digital signage the master node or each of the plurality of sensors may function as a virtual point of contact between the physical venue and mobile devices that may not be locally present at the physical venue to allow users of those remote mobile devices to search and or receive the same advertisement experience as users of mobile devices present at physical venue . When used with digital signage each master sensor node or each of the plurality of sensors may be assigned in location and function to a digital signage player to allow remote search and connection with the content being delivered by the physical digital sign. This increases return on investment of digital signage substantially as it provides citywide and potentially worldwide access to a local digital sign message.

In addition advertisement system may include a cloud based advertisement service . The cloud based advertisement service may be hosted by and associated with the at least one identification location and authentication systems deployed in the physical venue . The cloud based advertisement service may store a plurality of advertising data associated with the physical venue .

The cloud based advertisement service allows a service provider to design develop and launch advertising campaigns for each master sensor node or each of the plurality of sensors hosted at a physical venue . An advertising campaign is a predefined set of content storage and publishing commands that create service profiles that communicate with the mobile device . The service profiles enable text audio or video content publishing to the mobile device and can enable selection of one or more predefined services such as queuing making reservations viewing a menu of services or inventory list or making a wireless payment.

An advertising campaign may be assigned to one several or all master sensor nodes or to one several or all of the plurality of sensors belonging to a service provider or associated with a particular physical venue . Alternatively the advertising campaign can be broken into logical functions according to the physical position and purpose of each master sensor node or plurality of sensors . For instance a first master sensor nodes or at least one plurality of sensors may be placed at the entrance of a restaurant and perform a local check in and navigation of a mobile device to a destination such as a reserved table. A second master sensor nodes or at least one plurality of sensors may be physically positioned at the reserved table triggering the delivery of a service menu to the mobile device and a payment application upon check out. A third master sensor nodes or at least one plurality of sensors may be physically positioned at a digital signage display allowing remote access to the digital advertisement services remotely by searching the service venue or topic through the mobile engagement app and clicking on a related search item. The service profile and or content may be delivered through the master sensor node through a local network at the physical venue or through a cloud network outside of the physical venue . It is envisioned that a service profile may include additional services and content that may be relevant in case of emergency such as Amber Alerts or severe weather warnings.

The advertising system may additionally publish third party system APIs to allow integration with one or more property specific systems such as a media server a Point of Sale server POS Property Management System PMS or a Casino Management Systems CMS .

Advertisement system may further include an advertising application installed on a mobile device connected to a cellular network channel . The advertising application may transmit a search request for a local service and receive and display advertising data associated with the physical venue from the cloud based advertisement service in response to the search request. The advertising data may be selected for presentation to the mobile device based on a location of the mobile device a location of the physical venue and or search keyword s .

The advertising data may be displayed in a map view a list view or an augmented reality view. The user may toggle between views on the mobile device . In one embodiment the augmented reality view may be triggered when the mobile device is tilted from a horizontal position to a vertical position due to a resident inertial sensor e.g. an accelerometer passing a predefined threshold e.g. 45 degrees 90 degrees 360 degrees etc. . Conversely when the mobile device is tiled from the vertical position back to the horizontal position i.e. the inertial sensor passes the threshold in the opposite direction the original display view e.g. list or map view is triggered and displayed.

The augmented reality view may use the location of the mobile device as a reference point to gain more information about nearby venues such as the direction and distance of the nearby venues from the mobile device . For instance the user may be traveling on foot and may be interested to know about all venues for a particular service within walking distance of the current location.

In one embodiment of the present invention the augmented reality view allows the user to teleport to locations other than the current location of the mobile device based on a search function. When the user searches for and selects a venue or service provider location the user may be able to view other venues service providers within proximity of the selected venue. The user may then select another venue service provider to teleport to the newly selected venue service provider location. As such the user s perspective changes from the current location of the mobile device to a new location with the augmented reality view displayed the user as if the user were physically present in the new location. The teleportation function is accomplished by replacing the current location of the mobile device with the absolute position of a node at the new location e.g. latitude and longitude coordinate which spoofs the mobile device into believing that it is in the new location. This function may be helpful to a user who need to find services for a future visit to the new location. For instance consider a user who is planning a trip to a different city and desires to stay in a hotel with coffee shops restaurant business services and a gym nearby. Teleporting the user s perspective to a selected hotel s location will allow the user to view nearby services to ensure that the selected hotel meets the user s preferences. By creating a future reservation such as a hotel arrival and initiating teleportation searches a mobile device user may choose to create multiple nested queuing engagements scheduled in chronological order to allow zero wait engagements to cascade throughout.

Referring now to a flowchart of a method for searching and sending deals and offers to mobile devices via advertisement system is shown. It is envisioned that method may be used to supplement or replace traditional advertising entirely.

At step the master sensor node may determine that the mobile device is within a predetermined range of the master sensor node e.g. is present at the physical venue . At step the identification location and authentication system may optionally connect to the mobile device via a local network connection. At step the identification location and authentication system may identify and authenticate the mobile device to a loyalty system associated with the physical venue . At this point the mobile device may automatically be allowed to access to any deal or offer electronically available via the cloud based advertisement service while present at the physical venue .

At step the cloud based advertisement service may receive a search request from the mobile device . A user of the mobile device may search for deals offers and other venues service providers similar to a web browser search. However the advantage of the search via the cloud based advertisement service is that the search may be performed using a location of the mobile device as a primary search attribute such that all search results are within a predetermined distance from the user. At step the cloud based advertisement service returns a list of search results to the mobile device . Optionally at step a service provider may accept a reservation from the mobile device for a service selected from the search results.

Referring now to a flowchart of a method for publishing deals and offers to remote subscribed mobile devices via advertisement system is shown. It is envisioned that method may be used to supplement or replace traditional advertising entirely.

At step the cloud based advertisement service may receive an indication that a user of the mobile device has subscribed to advertisements associated with one or more service providers via the advertising application . At step the cloud based advertisement service may send or push a deal offer or other advertisement to the mobile device via the advertising application periodically or as new deals offers or other advertisements become available. If the advertisement is a coupon the coupon may be stored on the advertising application .

Optionally at step a service provider may accept a reservation from the advertising application of mobile device for an advertised service.

Referring now to a flowchart of a method for publishing deals and offers to local subscribed mobile devices via advertisement system is shown. It is envisioned that method may be used to supplement or replace traditional advertising entirely.

At step the cloud based advertisement service may receive an indication that a user of the mobile device has subscribed to advertisements associated with one or more service providers via the advertising application . The subscription to advertisements works similar to an e mail subscription or other web based subscription service except that subscription via the cloud based advertisement service uses a location of the mobile device as a primary attribute such that advertisements are sent out only to subscribed devices that are within a predetermined range of the master sensor node . As such the advertisements may be targeted to customers within close proximity to the services.

At step the master sensor node may determine that the mobile device is within a predetermined range of the master sensor node . At step the identification location and authentication system may optionally connect to the mobile device via a local network connection e.g. Bluetooth or Wi Fi . At step the identification location and authentication system may identify and authenticate the mobile device to a loyalty system associated with the physical venue . At this point the mobile device may automatically be allowed to access via the advertising application any deal or offer electronically available via the cloud based advertisement service while present at the physical venue . At step the cloud based advertisement service may send or push a deal offer or other advertisement to the advertising application on mobile device . If the advertisement is a coupon the coupon may be stored on the advertising application .

Optionally at step a service provider may accept a reservation from the advertising application of the mobile device for an advertised service.

The cloud based advertisement service may also allow interaction between the advertising application of the mobile device and one or more service providers. For instance the mobile device may be provided with dynamic access to dialog and collaboration services via the advertising application such as instant messaging live chat games phone e mail video conferencing and the like. This allows notifications messages to be broadcast to all users across a physical venue or sent individually to specific mobile devices .

Referring now to a flowchart of a method for updating service profiles and publishing content via advertisement system is shown. Once a reservation has been made according to method or for example at step secure keys are exchanged between the mobile device and the master sensor node . An in depth discussion of this process is described above at .

At step a location of the mobile device is determined. At step an ETA of the mobile device is calculated and broadcasted to master sensor node as described above at . The master sensor node or cloud based advertising service will continually monitor the ETA of the mobile device until the mobile device is detected as being within range of the master sensor node at step .

At step once the mobile device is within range of master sensor node the master sensor node or cloud based advertising service may update its service profile to advertise a custom service to the mobile device via the advertising application . For instance the master sensor node may be memory limited and may keep multiple service profiles active. The master sensor node may manage the active service profiles based on a queuing and ETA determination pattern. Dynamic local or remote network programming or updates may be provided based on preferences of or requests from the advertising application . If the advertisement is a coupon the coupon may be stored on the advertising application .

In an alternative embodiment of the present invention a master sensor node may be assigned a dedicated service profile to perform a specific function such that the service profile may not be updated remotely. The master sensor node may be operating in a high security authentication mode as might be required for certain regulated services such as online or on property wireless gaming.

Additionally the cloud based advertising service may control a variety of parameters associated with the master sensor node such as a location a name or ID and frame traffic passing through the master sensor node . The cloud based advertising service may collect user context and positioning statistics to analyze and optimize the services provided.

A virtual teleportation function used in connection with the search functions of the systems disclosed herein may be helpful to a user who needs to find services for a future visit to a location that is different from the user s current location at the time of searching. For instance consider a user who is planning a trip to a different city and desires to stay in a hotel with coffee shops restaurant business services and a gym nearby. Teleporting the user s perspective to a selected hotel s location will allow the user to view nearby services to ensure that the selected hotel meets the user s preferences without requiring the user to wait until he is in the location e.g. the different city to perform the search.

In some embodiments of the present invention systems and methods for utilizing a virtual teleportation service are disclosed. Referring now to a remote advertisement system is illustrated. The remote advertisement system may include at least one identification location and authentication system associated with a physical venue . The physical venue may be a physical retail venue a hotel a casino a theater a business transaction point a point of information a point of interest or the like.

The identification location and authentication system may include at least one master sensor node connected directly or indirectly to a broadband network channel . The identification location and authentication system may further include a plurality of sensors in the physical venue the plurality of sensors in communication with the master sensor node over a wireless network channel . The master sensor node and the plurality of sensors may be physically installed in the physical venue and may be geodetically positioned each having corresponding latitude longitude and height values and identifying datum.

The remote advertisement system may further include a cloud based advertisement service hosted by the at least one identification location and authentication system and deployed in the physical venue . The cloud based advertisement service may store a plurality of advertising data associated with the physical venue . Each master sensor node and plurality of sensors may be associated with a service or a plurality of services. Data relating to these services may be organized e.g. by categorizing venue or service providers by venue type or category of service and stored in the cloud based advertisement service .

The remote advertisement system may further include an application installed on a mobile device which may be connected to a cellular network channel .

The application may determine a first set of coordinates corresponding to a location associated with the mobile device . The application may further access an API that may filter venues and services based on categories and transmit a first search request for a service associated with a master sensor node or plurality of sensors located at the physical venue . The first search request may include at least one selected category e.g. hotels . The search request may include additional filters such as a particular location e.g. city county zip code physical address etc. a distance range from a particular location e.g. within 10 miles of a city and nearby services or points of interest or a combination thereof. For instance the search request may include the following parameters hotels in Paris France within 5 miles of the Eiffel Tower. The cloud based advertisement service may access global venue database APIs such as cloudTraQ Google or Foursquare property databases to find suitable candidate physical venues or services matching the search request parameters.

The application may receive and display a list of physical venues or related services from the cloud based advertisement service in response to the first search request. The list may be presented in a limited field of view and directional and distance data may be presented based on the mobile device s determined location. The list may be displayed in a map view a list view or an augmented reality view. The user may toggle between views on the mobile device . In one embodiment the augmented reality view may be triggered when the mobile device is tilted from a horizontal position to a vertical position due to a resident inertial sensor e.g. an accelerometer passing a predefined threshold e.g. 45 degrees 90 degrees 360 degrees etc. . Conversely when the mobile device is tilted from the vertical position back to the horizontal position i.e. the inertial sensor passes the threshold in the opposite direction the original display view e.g. list or map view is triggered and displayed.

From the list at least one physical venue or related service may include a teleportation indicator. The application may further receive an indication that the teleportation indicator has been selected. Optionally a field of view that displays only the selected venue or service may be presented.

The application may determine a second set of coordinates corresponding to a location associated with the selected physical venue or related service e.g. the physical venue and replace the first set of coordinates with the second set of coordinates. The user is thus virtually teleported from the first location the current location of the mobile device to the second location the searched location via the field of view displayed on the mobile device .

The application may further transmit a second search request for a service including the selected category and receive and display a second list of physical venues matching the selected category based at least on the second set of coordinates. The second list may be presented in a limited field of view and directional and distance data may be presented based on the location associated with the selected physical venue or related service.

The teleportation function may be performed and repeated as many times as needed to allow the user to find local resources in any searched location.

The particular services available for viewing and or engagement by the user via the mobile device using the teleportation function may depend on whether the access is active or passive.

According to a flowchart of a method for searching using an active teleportation mode is shown. If a selected physical venue or related service has a master sensor node and supports the teleportation function e.g. includes a teleportation indicator when displayed at step the user may engage with the venue for instance by making a reservation.

It should be noted that the teleportation function can be initiated during a search to create a nested queue schedule to allow zero wait throughout a time period such as a day or even an entire vacation trip.

Once a reservation has been made according to method or for example secure keys may be exchanged between the mobile device and the master sensor node at step to identify and authenticate mobile device . At step with the secure key from the venue the teleportation indicator on the application may be selected. At step the digital geodetic position of the mobile device e.g. latitude longitude is virtually teleported to that of the venue to which mobile device is connected.

In active teleportation mode the user may be able to use the augmented reality view to access a 360 degree virtual view of the venue and surrounding area with the point of view of a person physically standing in the exact latitude and longitude of the venue location. The master sensor node may optionally include a camera either live streaming or storing 360 degree panoramic images. The application in augmented reality mode may display the streamed or stored images of the surrounding area while the user rotates the camera. In active teleportation mode the user may also be able to remotely log in to venue services and to access venue specific resources such as menus inventories reservation status information about other guests e.g. whether friends and family members have checked into the venue or if not checked in their respective ETAs to the venue and the like. The user may also be able to make payments directly to the venue via the mobile phone e.g. via iPay . illustrates an exemplary mobile device displaying application operating in active teleportation mode.

According to a flowchart of a method for searching using a passive teleportation mode is shown. At step an absolute location e.g. latitude and longitude coordinates of a venue may be entered into the application . A user may manually enter the absolute location of the venue if known or the absolute location may be generated using a third party service such as a map engine. If the venue has a master sensor node only its absolute location node will be used the application does not communicate with the master sensor node in passive teleportation mode. Passive teleportation mode will also work for venues or points of interest without a master sensor node so long as the absolute location of the venue or point of interest is known.

At step the digital geodetic position of the mobile device e.g. latitude longitude is virtually teleported to that of the absolute location of the venue. In passive teleportation mode the user may be able to search and view services from the point of view of the venue location in list view map view or augmented reality view. However access to remote log in to venue services and venue specific resources will not be available. Moreover content specific to a master sensor node such as camera content e.g. 360 degree panoramic images live video stream etc. may also be unavailable in passive teleportation mode. illustrates an exemplary mobile device displaying application operating in passive teleportation mode.

Referring now to a system is illustrated according to one embodiment of the present invention. System includes identification location and authentication system zero wait publishing searching and queuing system advertisement system and remote advertisement .

Referring now to a topology of an identification location and authentication system 1 is shown. A master sensor node or a plurality of master sensor nodes located in a physical venue each connected to a broadband network channel 2 a plurality of sensors in the physical venue 3 the plurality of sensors in communication with the master sensor node over a wireless network channel or each having its own broadband network channel 4 wherein the plurality of sensors and the master sensor node are communicatively coupled to a mobile device over a radio frequency network channel 5 wherein the master sensor node or plurality of sensors identifies a mobile device and its location within proximity of itself 6 wherein the master sensor node authenticates the mobile device ID and location to the third party 7 and wherein the third party system authenticates the master sensor node and location and acknowledges mobile device authentication verification to the service 8 wherein the third party receives authentication of the mobile device and provides the mobile device access to a network connection associated with the third party 9 .

Referring now to a topology of a single node use case of an identification location and authentication system is shown. A sensor node authenticates a mobile device ID and position to receive reserved content.

Referring now to a topology of a multi node use case of an identification location and authentication system is shown. A sensor node authenticates a mobile device ID and position to receive reserved content.

Referring now to a topology of a single node use case of an identification location and authentication system is shown. A sensor node authenticates a mobile device ID and position that is requesting content service from sensor node.

Referring now to a topology of a multi node use case of an identification location and authentication system is shown. A sensor node authenticates a mobile device ID Position that is requesting content service from sensor node.

Referring now to a topology of a single node use case of an identification location and authentication system is shown. A sensor node authenticates a mobile device ID and position to a requesting content service.

Referring now to a topology of a multi node use case of an identification location and authentication system is shown. A sensor node authenticates a mobile device ID and position to a requesting content service.

Referring now to a diagram of authentication levels of an identification location and authentication system. The three levels are zone session and service.

Referring now to a procedural flow diagram of zero wait mobile consumer engagement life cycle technology is shown.

Referring now to a topology of a channel sensor direct to consumer offer publish subscribe and search cloud system 1 is shown. A master sensor node or a plurality of master sensor nodes located in a physical venue or remotely connected to a broadband network channel 2 a plurality of sensors in a physical venue 3 the plurality of sensors in communication with the master sensor node over a wireless network channel or broadband network channel 4 a Cloud Deal Offer Service COS 5 communicatively coupled to a master sensor node or plurality of master sensor nodes located in a physical venue or remotely connected to a broadband network channel 6 and communicatively coupled to one or more mobile devices over a cellular or broadband network channel 7 a web application user interface used to author and publish 8 one or more deal offers to the cloud deal offer service COS 9 wherein the cloud deal offer service COS communicates with a master sensor node or at least one plurality of sensors to obtain 10 wherein each of a plurality of deal offers is associated with a specific master sensor node or one or more of a plurality of sensor identities locations and services 11 and stored in the cloud deal offer service COS 12 a mobile deal offer search app installed on a mobile device 13 wherein the plurality of deal offers and the Cloud Deal Offer Service are communicatively coupled to a mobile device over a cellular or broadband network channel 14 wherein the mobile deal offer search app locates and requests a deal offer from the Cloud Deal Offer Service COS 15 and the Cloud Deal Offer Service COS retrieves and sends the deal offer coupon electronically to the mobile deal offer search app and stores the coupon in the app 16 .

Referring now to a topology of a channel sensor teleportation operation remote IoT sensor search teleport and search procedure system is shown. A remote location centric advertisement search and engagement system 1 comprising a geographical distribution of master sensor nodes and plurality of sensors at physical retail venues business transaction points and points of information 2 a plurality of master sensor nodes or a plurality of sensors located in a physical venue or other points of interest connected directly or indirectly to a broadband network channel 3 and that are geodetically positioned absolutely with latitude longitude height and identifying datum value 4 the plurality of master sensors nodes or plurality of sensors are physically installed 5 and ordered in a cloud hosted database logically according to their business service product or topic categories 6 communicatively coupled to one or more mobile devices over a cellular or broadband network channel 7 wherein the mobile device has a search app connected to the channel sensor cloud database by accessing an API allowing the mobile app to filter venues and their services based on the business service product or topic categories 8 wherein the filtered items may be presented in a limited field of view to allow directional and distance deterministic selections 9 wherein the mobile device with the search app is able to display local search results in multiple views using motion sensors and a flexible UX that may include a list view a map view a camera augmented reality view a heads up display view or a virtual reality view 10 wherein a category search filters the cloud hosted database to display only search items that represent the business services products or topics requested in the view selected 11 wherein one or more of the views may present a filed of view that displays selected search items 12 practically based on their direction and distances by using sensors on the mobile device to determine this information by obtaining positions of both the mobile device and the channel sensor node 13 by selecting an item within the mobile devices search app the user is able to perform a virtual teleportation to the master sensor node one or more of the plurality of sensors by retrieving the position information of the node from the Channel sensor cloud database and swapping it for the search apps physical position used to locate the node being teleported to 14 . The mobile device search app is virtually teleported within the Channel Sensor cloud database to represent the nodes position 15 . A new search will display search items that are distance and directionally related to the teleported node allowing the mobile app to see businesses services products and topics relative to the nodes location 16 wherein a new search will display items related to the nodes location 17 with a search field of view providing directional and distance information 18 using the mobile devices internal sensors and information obtained from the channel sensor cloud database 19 wherein a selection of a unique item within one of the plurality of search views will 20 deliver to the mobile device in its physically location the service requested from the teleported virtual position 21 .

Referring now to architecture for a zero wait hybrid mobile application is shown. Flexible hybrid app distributed architecture is comprised of 1 Native widget that resides on the operating system desktop. Operates as a metering and event agent and manages internal application communications external services communications notifications and event triggering. 2 API based hybrid app manages internal device sensor APIs and external networked service APIs. 3 In app browser launches external and third party web services within the hybrid mobile app.

Referring now to architecture for a native application widget is shown. 1 Native widget resides on the mobile device operating system desktop to allow instant access and easy monitoring of service data without having to open a full screen app. 2 Notification window allows viewing of internal mobile device service data and external web and network application servers service data through an API managed infrastructure. 3 Service operation button group used to launch apps and manage services. 4 Application assignable button such as a Search button to launch search screen. 5 Application assignable button such as a chat button to launch communications and social network services screen. 6 Application assignable button such as a navigation button to provide tracking navigation and wayfinding service screen. 7 Application assignable button such as an identity Access or Payment button to allow secure mobile device and end user authentication to third party systems. 8 Application assignable button such as a home button to launch other service and applications.

Referring now to a hybrid mobile application is illustrated. 1 Hybrid mobile app launches two ways Manually from a button press by device app user. Automatically triggered by location or activity event associated with the zero wait service. 2 Integrated into the hybrid mobile app and containing user assignable buttons that manage services both on the mobile device and off the mobile device that may be running over the local network or internet. 3 Window such as an in app browser HTML5 canvas element or iFrame element running within the hybrid mobile app to allow third party applications to run within the Hybrid mobile app. The third party apps interface to mobile device sensors through an API provided by the Hybrid mobile app or to local or cloud services through a network API provided by the hybrid mobile app.

Services Manual button access to apps Event location activity context triggers to apps and notifications

Referring now to a TraQin connection manager venue service connection check in zone tracking status management is shown.

Mode 2 Queuing Active Initiated a queuing session with a property or service requiring routing estimated time of arrival ETA and notification services.

Mode 3 Venue Connection active Established a network connection with a property master sensor node or one or more plurality of sensors while on property.

The above description is illustrative and not restrictive. Many variations of the invention will become apparent to those of skill in the art upon review of this disclosure. While the present invention has been described in connection with a variety of embodiments these descriptions are not intended to limit the scope of the invention to the particular forms set forth herein. To the contrary the present descriptions are intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claim and otherwise appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art.

