---

title: Method and system for collecting and providing application usage analytics
abstract: Methods and systems for collecting and analyzing application usage are disclosed. A usage analytics module is integrated within an application. The application is deployed to a device. Usage analytics are received, at a server, in response to usage of the application at the device. The usage analytics are provided to the developer, wherein the usage analytics includes at least one of: information identifying a user of the application or information linking the usage analytics to an existing user identity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09591088&OS=09591088&RS=09591088
owner: Appboy, Inc.
number: 09591088
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160118
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. Nonprovisional application Ser. No. 13 556 937 filed 24 Jul. 2012 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates to methods and systems for collecting and analyzing application usage analytics. More particularly the present disclosure relates to a module that may be integrated with an application in order to collect usage data regarding application usage that is related to a user identity as well as serve and host content.

Recent advancements in technology have resulted in increased usage of mobile applications. As a result developers are increasingly reliant on information regarding how their applications are used the demographic of the application users and other information regarding application use. Different tools may be used in conjunction with a mobile application and executing separately to assist developers. However these solutions may not be optimal. For example analytic usage information with respect to mobile applications do not tie into a user s actual identity and other details which may reveal more about the user and how they use the application and what their true preferences are. Several services provide passive analytics collection such as receiving information about device type time of usage location usage feature usage and event reporting. However none of these solutions process or utilize information relating to a user s identity.

The embodiments described herein relate to methods and systems for collecting and analyzing application usage.

In an embodiment a method for analyzing application usage is disclosed. A usage analytics module is integrated within an application. The application is deployed to a device. Usage analytics are received at a server in response to usage of the application at the device. The usage analytics are provided to the developer wherein the usage analytics include information identifying a user of the application or linking the usage analytics to an existing user identity.

In an embodiment a system for analyzing application usage is disclosed. An integration unit is configured for integrating a usage analytics module within an application. A deployment unit is configured for deploying the application to a device. A usage analytics unit is configured for receiving usage analytics in response to usage of the application at the device. A developer dashboard unit is configured for providing the usage analytics to the developer wherein the usage analytics include information identifying a user of the application or linking the usage analytics to an existing user identity.

In an embodiment a machine readable non transitory and tangible medium having information recorded for analyzing usage is disclosed. The information when read by the machine causes the machine to perform the steps comprising integrating a usage analytics module within an application deploying the application to a device receiving usage analytics at a server in response to usage of the application at the device and providing the usage analytics to the developer wherein the usage analytics include information identifying a user of the application or linking the usage analytics to an existing user identity.

In an embodiment integrating a usage analytics module within an application may comprise integrating the usage analytics module into source code of the application.

In an embodiment deploying the application to a device may comprise deploying the application to a device via a mobile application store.

In an embodiment deploying the application to a device may comprise deploying the application to a mobile device.

In an embodiment receiving usage analytics in response to usage of the application at the device may comprise collecting usage analytics regarding at least one of usage of the application by at least one user of the device interfacing of the application with the device and details regarding the device.

In an embodiment receiving usage analytics in response to usage of the application at the device may comprise collecting user feedback from a user of the device.

In an embodiment at least one of hyperlinked content or product announcements may be provided to the device via the application.

In an embodiment an interface for a user of the application may be provided to integrate the application with at least one social network associated with the user. The at least one social network associated with the user may be linked to an internal profile associated with the user. Information received from the at least one social network may be augmented with the internal profile.

In an embodiment receiving usage analytics in response to usage of the application at the device may comprise collecting usage analytics passively. Collecting usage analytics passively may comprise receiving information about a user of the application in response to the application being executed and adding the information about the user to an internal profile associated with the user.

In an embodiment providing the usage analytics to the developer comprises providing a developer dashboard for presenting the usage analytics to the developer. The usage analytics may be formatted for display in a graphical form and the usage analytics may be displayed in graphical form within the developer dashboard.

In an embodiment at least one social network associated with the user may be linked to an internal profile associated with the user based on a received identity key associated with the user. Information received from the at least one social network may be augmented with the internal profile.

Additional advantages and novel features will be set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon examination of the following and the accompanying drawings or may be learned by production or operation of the disclosed embodiments. The advantages of the present embodiments may be realized and attained by practice or use of various aspects of the methodologies instrumentalities and combinations set forth in the detailed description set forth below.

The present disclosure and embodiments described herein provide a system that associates mobile device application usage analytics with publicly and privately available information to create composite user profiles. Mobile application usage analytics may be defined as a quantitative measurement of specific actions taken by users within a mobile application and the circumstances under which those actions are taken. A usage analytics module may be integrated directly within a host application source code. After the host application is deployed and executed by a user the usage analytics module collects information regarding how the application is being used by the user for example the number of times the application has been used. The usage analytics module may compile this information or usage analytics and provide it to the developer of the application. Additionally a developer dashboard may be provided to developers to access the usage analytics and view the usage analytics in order to help the developer further develop their application.

Some further examples of mobile application usage analytics are discussed below. Passive usage data may include device and software details related to the device version information or capability information of the device or software the location of the usage as well as amount of time spent by a user in a particular application. The passive usage data may be cumulative to represent data for total usage of an application or discrete for each time a user initiates use of an application.

Specific statistics on usage of particular application features may also be collected and analyzed. This includes for example how a user engages with promotional material presented within an application purchases initiated from within the application and completed in an external market sharing activity on social networks consumption and following of links to news submitting feedback and technical support questions to application developers as well as sharing profile and demographic information. Additionally data regarding custom activities and feature usage particular to the application may be collected as well.

Data related to follow on activities may also be collected. This includes results of the usage of particular features including the impact measurable by eventual purchase of an item or participation in social media such as promoting an item or sharing an activity on social networks. Follow on activities may thus include activities both by the user initiating a tracked activity or their audience. For example if a user shares or tweets about an application through their Twitter account and one of that user s followers subsequently downloads the application the follower may build their own user profile facilitating collection of usage analytics. When usage analytics are eventually collected with regard to the follower data on the trail of activity leading to the follower s download and installation of the application can also be retrieved.

As will be discussed further within the present disclosure the embodiments described herein also provide authenticated social network identities in the form of a social network profile that a mobile application user may authenticate from within a mobile application. Composite user profiles may also be associated with users. Information may be gathered and compiled about a particular user based on available information tied to a user s existing social network identities as well as other external data sources including personalized content based on shopping history social network influence indicators net worth or household size estimates and educational background.

As described above a usage analytics module may be integrated directly into a host application s source code. In order to facilitate integration of the usage analytics module a developer may access a server over network . For example developer may transmit an application to server . Once the application is received by server server will integrate a usage analytics module into the application. The usage analytics module may also be provided by server to developer to perform the integration. Once integrated the usage analytics module becomes a part of the application. Thus whenever the application is executed by for example a user of a user device the usage analytics module collects usage analytics regarding application usage such as how many times the application has been opened or executed.

Furthermore the usage analytics module provides built in features for both developers and users including allowing a developer to push hyperlinked content and product announcements into the application a feedback interface for users to contact the developer regarding the application and incentives for users to share any content from the application on the users social networks.

Additionally when developer accesses server server may provide the usage analytics that have been collected to developer . Provision of the usage analytics may be through a developer dashboard interface allowing developer to view the usage analytics including feedback form users and statistics regarding the users use of applications. The developer dashboard interface furthermore allows developer via server to pull or push hyperlinked content and product announcements into the application without requiring developer to reprogram the application.

Once the usage analytics module is integrated into the application the application may be deployed to a device. Deployment of the application may take place either from server or from a developer . Additionally the application may be deployed to an external data source for example an application store or web site that allows a user of user device to purchase and or download the application.

After the application is installed on user device the usage analytics module of the application will activate each time the application is opened or executed or run. Once the usage analytics module of the application is activated usage analytics are collected based on usage of the application at user device . The usage analytics as mentioned above may include information related to usage of the application interfacing of the application with the user device and details regarding the user device . As mentioned above user feedback is also collected as part of the usage analytics.

Hyperlinked content or product announcements may additionally be provided to the usage analytics module of user device from external data sources . This content may be provided at the request of developer . Once received the content will be displayed on user device through the application.

The usage analytics module furthermore provides an interface thru the application where a user of user device may integrate or associate the application with their social networks. Linking of the social networks may be performed by transmitting an instruction from user device through network to social network providers to link the application to the particular social network. Additionally internal user profiles may be stored at server . Thus the linked social networks may also be linked to the internal user profiles. As a result any information received from or transmitted to the social networks from the application may be augmented to any other information in the internal user profiles. The internal user profiles may be established at the discretion of a user of user device . The usage analytics module may prompt a user with instructions to establish an internal user profile. Once established various usage analytics may be associated with the user profile to further assist developers in developing their application and ascertaining information regarding usage of their application.

Icon allows a user to navigate to a news section. Icon allows a user to contact the developers via the usage analytics module. This will allow users to submit feedback via the usage analytics module to server where the feedback may be later retrieved by a developer through a developer dashboard discussed in greater detail below. Icon allows a user to navigate to a section of the application where they can view or download other applications. Share icon allows a user to share their usage of the application a link to download of the application or a feature of the application through an associated social network such as Facebook. When selected an indication of the sharing may be collected by the usage analytics module which transmits this information to server .

Once the application is installed and resident on a user device the application is opened or executed at . Execution of the application initiates a process for collection of data.

At the user device through the application may transmit a payload or data representing usage analytics that includes information regarding the user the application and other relevant usage information as described previously. Information regarding the user may be obtained from the user directly through forms filled out by the user through user data obtained from user device or through user data obtained from any social networks or external accounts that the user has decided to link with the application. Information regarding the application is collected based on events occurring within the application. An event may comprise at least the following starting the application closing the application initiating a function of the application initiating a function causing an error in the application. Usage information can include usage of particular features of the application results of that usage location data of where the application is used as well as data related to social network integration of the application. Usage analytics may alternatively be furnished directly from the application developer.

More specifically when an application is first executed the application communicates via user device with server to establish a unique identifier for the installed instance of the application. This ensures that any usage analytics generated via usage of the application on user device is correctly attributed to the installed instance.

Subsequently each time an application is executed a payload or data representing usage analytics is transmitted from user device to server using a data transfer protocol such as a Representational State Transfer REST interface via Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure HTTPS . Based on the unique identifier established at server user device may transmit all data from a particular application usage session the time starting from when an application is opened until the time an application is closed or the time when another application causes the application to close to server . Examples of the data may include which icons or buttons are selected or clicked by a user how long a user uses a particular feature of the application feedback transmitted from a user to a developer and location information regarding the user.

At the option of a developer the usage analytics module may also facilitate collection of data relating to how much money a user has spent with regard to purchases made or transactions enacted within the application.

At upon receipt of the data the data is stored at server and associated with a user internal profile corresponding to a user of user device . Once the data is stored the data may be later retrieved by developer .

At server receives the information transmitted from user device and associates this information with an internal user profile corresponding to the user.

At server queries social network providers or external data sources in order to retrieve additional information to update the internal user profile. This may include augmenting the internal user profile with additional information retrieved from social networks or external accounts that the user may belong to. This augmentation may occur at regularly scheduled intervals. Information may be obtained from any of the social network or external accounts and may include public and private information sources. Public sources may include general publicly available information such as public Twitter feeds LinkedIn information or Hunch taste graph recommendations. Private sources may include Facebook and private Twitter profile information. Private sources may also include data feeds or aggregated data purchased from third party sources.

To facilitate retrieval of additional information to update the internal user profile server may receive an identity key allowing server to index and retrieve the additional information. For example when a user of an application decides to link one of their social networks or external accounts such as Twitter Facebook Google etc. there is an identity key associated with each of their accounts for each respective social network or external account. The identity keys may be social network identifiers such as usernames or IDs email addresses social network connections authentication tokens first last name of the user. Once an identity key is determined that identity key may be used to further identify the particular user when for example the user uses the application from another device as well as to query other social networks and external data sources that may identify the user using the same identity key. These other sources may be for example other social networks or external sources such as Klout.com and Hunch.com. When the same user is identified across networks further information about the user can be retrieved to enhance the internal user profile and to assist in identifying the user across multiple devices social networks accounts data sources and sites.

For example a user may use an application which includes an integrated usage analytics module. The user may link their Facebook account to the application. Linking of the Facebook account allows the usage analytics module to determine the user s identity key with respect to Facebook Facebook username . This identity key may be transmitted to server . Server may subsequently use the identity key and query other social networks or external data sources to see if there are accounts associated with the same identity key. If there are then data from these other accounts are all considered associated with the original user in the internal user profile for the user stored at server . Data from the other accounts may also be extracted and added as additional content to the internal user profile.

Integration may also take place apart from server . Server may instead provide the usage analytics module to a developer. Developer may access developer dashboard unit which may retrieve the usage analytics module from integration unit . The usage analytics module is then provided to developer who may integrate the usage analytics module within their application.

The application may then be deployed by deployment unit . Deployment may be direct to a mobile device or user device or to a device via a mobile application store.

Once the application is installed on user device the usage analytics module will cause user device to transmit usage analytics which will be collected by usage analytics unit in response to usage of the application at user device . The collected usage analytics may include usage of the application by users of the user device interfacing of the application with the user device and details regarding user device . Usage analytics unit also collects user feedback from a user of user device . All usage analytics received as well as any other data transmitted to from server may be stored in a storage . Usage analytics for particular users may be added to internal user profiles corresponding to the users.

Developer dashboard unit may provide an interface to a developer. The interface may be a developer dashboard which provides the usage analytics to the developer for viewing and further analysis. The developer dashboard may format the usage analytics for display in a graphical form and present them for display.

Additionally developer dashboard unit may interface with usage analytics unit . In this manner through the developer dashboard a developer may determine specific metrics to be recorded with respect to a particular user. For example developer may dictate that each time an in application purchase is made where a purchase or transaction is enacted from within the application information regarding the purchase will be collected and stored in correspondence with the user s internal user profile.

The developer dashboard allows developers to view different analytics as well as specific internal user profiles of users using their application. For example when a developer wishes to view user feedback a display provided by the developer dashboard may be augmented with additional information regarding the user stored in the internal user profile.

At developer may log into their developer dashboard through server and add information about their application to the developer dashboard. The developer may also add their own social network accounts or external accounts to the developer dashboard such that this information is displayable and accessible through the developer dashboard.

At server through the developer dashboard may provide the usage analytics module to developer and thus developer receives the usage analytics module from server .

At developer may integrate the usage analytics module into an application either through server or by downloading the usage analytics module and performing the integration through a machine used by developer .

Two devices and may belong to and be used by a single user. That user may install the same application including an integrated usage analytics module onto both device and . Since an internal user profile is created at server for usage of the application at each device server does not know that the user of device and is in reality the same entity.

However if a user decides to link a social network account or external account account to the application at device server will thereafter have the identity key of the user with respect to account . Thus if the user links account to their other device server will detect that account linked to both device and device have the same identity key and thus are associated with the same user. As a result usage analytics data collected from both device and may be aggregated in the same internal user profile stored at server .

Additionally if the user decides to use device to link the application to another account server may further identify account as belonging to the same user and also link account to the internal user profile based on the identity key of account of the user and the association of device and . Thus the internal user profile may now aggregate data from both devices and as well as both accounts and of the user.

For example device may be a mobile phone and device may be a tablet computing device. Device and device are both used by the same user. The user may install the same application on both device and device to submit feedback through an integrated usage analytics module of the application to server . Server treats these two devices as belonging to different users and thus creates two discrete internal user profiles. The user may link their Facebook account account with the application at device . Linkage causes an identity key associated with the Facebook account of the user to be transmitted to server such that server may aggregate information from the Facebook account to the user s internal user profile. The user may then link their Facebook account account with the application at device . Since account shares a single identity key but which has now been detected from two different devices and server may deduplicate the social identities by detecting that usage of the application at both device and is associated with the same account . Thus all data relating to application usage at device and as well as further additional information from account may be aggregated and merged by server into the user s internal user profile. Thus the deduplication of data has occurred based on login and association of the same social network account with two different devices using the same application.

Additionally if another social network account or external account account were linked to the application from device for example server would further associate the identity key of account with the identity key of account . Thus server now identifies the user of device and device and accounts and as all belonging to the same entity. Thus any data such as usage analytics data from device and device collected by the integrated usage analytics module of the application at either device and details from accounts and account may all be aggregated at an internal user profile of the user. The aggregation may be particularly useful to a developer who may now access more information about the user.

The above described embodiments for collecting and analyzing application usage can be implemented on a computer using well known computer processors memory units storage devices computer software and other components. A high level block diagram of such a computer is illustrated in . Computer contains a processor which controls the overall operation of the computer by executing computer program instructions which define such operations. The computer program instructions may be stored in a storage device or other computer readable medium e.g. magnetic disk CD ROM etc. and loaded into memory when execution of the computer program instructions is desired. Thus any of the processes described herein can be defined by the computer program instructions stored in the memory and or storage and controlled by the processor executing the computer program instructions. For example the computer program instructions can be implemented as computer executable code programmed by one skilled in the art to perform collection and analysis of application usage. Accordingly by executing the computer program instructions the processor executes an algorithm for collecting and analyzing application usage as described herein. Computer may also perform other functionalities such as those described above in connection with all Figures corresponding to the embodiments described herein. The computer also includes one or more network interfaces for communicating with other devices via a network. The computer also includes input output devices that enable user interaction with the computer e.g. display keyboard mouse speakers buttons etc. One skilled in the art will recognize that an implementation of an actual computer could contain other components as well and that is a high level representation of some of the components of such a computer for illustrative purposes.

While the foregoing has described what are considered to be the best mode and or other examples it is understood that various modifications may be made therein and that the subject matter disclosed herein may be implemented in various forms and examples and that the teachings may be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described herein. It is intended by the following claims to claim and all applications modifications and variations that fall within the true scope of the present teachings.

