---

title: Method and apparatus for accessing an enterprise resource planning system via a mobile device
abstract: A method and apparatus for accessing an enterprise resource planning system via a mobile device is described. In one embodiment, the method includes parsing data from a host application access application into at least one object in an application-specific format, converting the data into an intermediate format that is compatible with a mobile device and communicating the converted data to the mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09661096&OS=09661096&RS=09661096
owner: SYNACTIVE, INC.
number: 09661096
owner_city: Foster City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160812
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 981 492 filed 28 Dec. 2015 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 9 420 054 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 667 583 filed 24 Mar. 2015 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 9 225 804 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 083 988 filed 11 Apr. 2011 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 990 427 which claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application No. 61 342 372 filed 13 Apr. 2010 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to remote database access and more particularly to a method and apparatus for accessing an Enterprise Resource Planning server via a mobile device.

Computer systems exist that enable a user to remotely access computer information e.g. an ERP server. Such ERP servers often use complex client applications to interface with data stored on the ERP server. These complex client applications are typically designed to execute on full desktop computers. As such mobile devices such as personal digital assistants PDAs cellular phones smart phones net books tablet computers and the like generally lack processing power to effectively run these client applications. These devices also typically lack display panel space and input options resulting in different usage patterns. Desktop interfaces are typically more complex varied and exploratory while mobile interfaces prioritize quick access and ease of use for a specific purpose.

While specific server applications for converting data into the various communication formats used by these mobile devices may be developed the myriad of different mobile device formats makes this approach cost prohibitive. Since such devices also lack the processing power needed to execute full database interface applications there is no effective way for these mobile devices to access these ERP servers. Therefore there exists a need in the art for a method and apparatus for accessing an enterprise resource planning server via a mobile device.

Embodiments of the present invention comprise a method and apparatus for accessing an Enterprise Resource Planning ERP server via a mobile device. In one embodiment the method includes processing data from a host application access application converting the processed data into an intermediate format that is compatible with a mobile device and communicating the converted data to the mobile device.

In one embodiment the apparatus comprises a server application for processing data from a host application access application converting the processed data into an intermediate format that is compatible with a mobile device and communicating the converted data to the mobile device. In one embodiment the host application access application performs interface operations with an ERP server. In one embodiment a native client for the mobile device renders the converted data according to one or more rules.

The server is a computing device such as those generally known in the art. The server comprises a central processing unit CPU support circuits and a memory . The CPU may comprise one or more commercially available microprocessors or microcontrollers that facilitate data processing and storage. The various support circuits are utilized to facilitate the operation of the CPU and include such circuits as clock circuits power supplies cache input output circuits and devices and the like. The memory may comprise random access memory read only memory removable storage optical disk storage disk drive storage and combinations thereof. The memory stores an operating system a server application and a host application access application . In operation the CPU executes the operating system to control the general utilization and functionality of the server .

The memory also comprises a server application . The server application converts data to and from an intermediate format suitable for use by the mobile device . The server application also facilitates communication with the mobile device via the network . In some embodiments the server application communicates with the mobile device via the hyper text transfer protocol HTTP but one of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that other application layer protocols such as telnet secure socket layer SSL rlogin and the like could be used for this purpose. The server application converts data received from the host application access application into an intermediate format suitable to send to the mobile device . The server application also converts data received in an intermediate format from the mobile device into a format suitable for transmission to the host application access application .

In some embodiments the server application identifies the particular type of mobile device and creates custom device specific controls for the particular mobile device from the standard interface provided by the host application access application . In some embodiments the server application comprises a scripting engine with a scripting environment application programming interface API that executes one or more customization scripts . These customization scripts modify behavior and screen content prior to conversion and transmission to the native client . Optionally the server application may also preserve sessions across native client invocations thereby preserving the connection to the ERP system .

The memory further comprises a host application access application . The host application access application is a front end for the ERP server as commonly known in the art. Such front ends provide access to the data and functionality provided by the ERP server . The host application access application sends and receives commands and data to and from the server application in an application server specific format.

The ERP server provides business and or enterprise management functionality to the host application access application . The ERP server may allow a user to access data execute programs generate reports and various other data access and integration tasks as known in the art. In some embodiments the ERP server is a Systems Applications and Products SAP server as provided by SAP AG of Walldorf Germany.

The server is coupled to the mobile device via a network . The network comprises a communication system that connects computers by wire cable fiber optic and or wireless link facilitated by various types of well known network elements such as hubs switches routers and the like. The network may employ various well known protocols to communicate information amongst the network resources. For example the network may be a part of the Internet or Intranet using various communications infrastructure such as Ethernet Wi Fi WiMax General Packet Radio Service GPRS and the like.

The mobile device is a mobile device as commonly known in the art. Such mobile devices include personal digital assistants PDAs cellular phones smart phones net books tablet computers and the like. In some embodiments one or more native applications reside on the mobile device to render data received from the server application on the device to wait for data entry to take into account interruptions inherent in mobile devices such as an incoming phone call received by a cellular phone to perform session continuation after such an interruption and the like.

The mobile device is comprised of a CPU support circuits and a memory . The CPU may comprise one or more commercially available microprocessors or microcontrollers that facilitate data processing and storage. The various support circuits are utilized to facilitate the operation of the CPU and include such circuits as clock circuits power supplies cache input output circuits and devices and the like. The memory may comprise random access memory read only memory removable storage optical disk storage disk drive storage and combinations thereof. The memory stores an operating system and a native client . In operation the CPU executes the operating system to control the general utilization and functionality of the mobile device .

The memory also comprises a native client . The native client allows a user to access the ERP server by sending and receiving data and commands to and from the server application . The native client is configured to execute on the specific type of mobile platform such as a particular type of cellular phone or PDA. In some embodiments the server application alters data sent to the mobile device to a format specific for the interface provided by the mobile device. In some embodiments the native client may execute a series of rules that provides the best interpretation of data sent by the server application . For example rows of buttons might be automatically converted into a table control if the mobile device was an IPHONE provided by APPLE COMPUTERS of Cupertino Calif. Depending on the customization scripts the native client will render the screen and enable navigation that is native to the mobile device . The native client may also utilize an efficient state driven polling loop that utilizes standard HTTP through the network . Various native clients tailored for the individual mobile device using custom script interpretations enable a single version of a customization script to be utilized across a variety of types of mobile devices .

At step data is received from the ERP server . In some embodiments this data is received via the host application access application and sent to the server application . Such data is typically in a format specific to the ERP server and the host application access application . In some embodiments the server application extracts the data from an interface provided by the host application access application such as by reading values contained within particular fields accessing transaction logs created by the host application access application or another method as commonly known in the art. Once the data has been extracted and or received the method proceeds to step .

At step the server application parses and converts the data into an intermediate format. Examples of such an intermediate format include JavaScript Object Notation JSON or Extensible Markup Language XML . By translating the data into an intermediate format the server application advantageously removes the necessity for the mobile device to translate directly from the host application access application specific format a task that traditionally involves a significant amount of processing power. Once the data is translated to the intermediate format the method proceeds to step .

In some embodiments the server application processes a data stream of ERP data in binary format that is received from the host application access application and recognizes structured data e.g. name value pairs an array of ordered values a Boolean a string of characters and or the like . For example the server application parses the binary data stream into JavaScript objects by identifying specific markers that signify each new object. The JavaScript objects are suitable for transmission to the mobile phone because such objects are compatible with native mobile applications. The server application builds a data structure e.g. an array or tree that stores a list of the JavaScript objects. As an example each of the JavaScript objects may include customer contact information in the form of attributes i.e. keys such as first name last name age phone number e.g. work and home phone numbers as sub objects address and or the like having values of various data types.

At step the script engine executes customization scripts that manipulate the data to alter and optimize the user interface that will eventually be presented on the mobile device according to some embodiments. These customization operations may include renaming adding and deleting data as received by the host application access application .

The customization scripts remove various unnecessary fields from an invoice and retain important data fields such as customer contact information billing type sales delivery documents payer information and or the like according to some embodiments. Some data fields are displayed as a list and expandable into more details if desired i.e. clicked . For example billing items are listed along with corresponding pricing elements which can be expanded with long text describing a specific billing item. Action items may be used to select the specific billing item and or modify any information e.g. price . In some embodiments the customization scripts also determine positioning of the data fields and action items on a display screen.

At step the server application transmits the converted data to the mobile device . While in the present example the server application is discussed as transmitting the data one of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that a separate web server executing on the server or another networked computer would also be able to perform the same task. In some embodiments the server application transmits the converted data via HTTP. In some embodiments the server application may perform additional translation functions depending upon the type of mobile device to which the data will be transmitted. The method ends when the data has been transmitted.

In some embodiments the native client displays the converted data on the mobile phone by rendering each object using a native control. Instead of displaying ERP data in an application specific format on the mobile phone the ERP data is converted into an intermediate format that is recognizable to the native client . Accordingly the native client may utilize one or more native controls i.e. applications to render the converted data locally in order to display the objects in a suitable layout for the mobile phone . The native client may configure the converted data as a table of key value pairs. For example the native client may display a billing due list of billing items along with each pricing date billing date and billing document. Furthermore each billing item is coupled to action items such as display the billing document issue the billing document to an accounting department and or the like. As another example the native client may render down payment requests for recent sales orders.

At least a portion of the converted data may be augmented with a native operation on the mobile phone. For example customer contact information may indicate a first name a last name an address and at least one phone number which are displayed in a known or compatible layout e.g. a mailing address layout or a table format . Furthermore a particular phone number may be coupled with a link to a function for dialing the particular phone number or a function to save the particular phone number in memory e.g. a mobile phone book for storing the customer contact information . As another example clicking on the display or otherwise activating a link associated with the address may execute a map application that produces a real time map of an area surrounding location associated with the address.

At step the server application receives data from the mobile device . In some embodiments the data is received in an intermediate format such as JSON or XML. The data received by the server application may represent various interface commands operations or data entry fields such as mouse clicks drag selects character data entries and the like.

At step the data is converted to an interface specific format as used by the host application access application . The server application translates the interface operations received in the intermediate format into the corresponding interface operations performed on the host application access application . In some embodiments the server application may provide these operations transparently such that the host application access application is unaware that the actions are not being performed locally on the server. In some embodiments the server application may translate the interface operations directly into data entry access commands that are sent to the host application access application and the host application access application may be aware that said interface operations were performed remotely by a mobile device.

At step the data converted into an interface specific format is sent to the host application access application for execution and or access on the ERP server . The method ends at step when the interface operations have been sent to the host application access application.

The foregoing description of embodiments of the invention comprises a number of elements devices circuits and or assemblies that perform various functions as described. These elements devices circuits and or assemblies are exemplary implementations of means for performing their respectively described functions. In some embodiments the server application represents a means for accessing an enterprise resource planning system via a mobile device. Collectively the server application the customization scripts and or the native client may form a means for accessing an enterprise resource planning system via a mobile device.

While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow.

