---

title: Method and system for gaming revenue
abstract: A method and system comprises integrating a contest framework into a game. The contest framework at least comprises means for communicating with a transactional server, a plurality of listeners being configured to monitor interactions during a play of the game for communication to the transactional server, and means for displaying notifications from the transactional server. The transactional server is at least configured for processing received interactions in conjunction with a progressive jackpot contest associated with the game and communicating notifications regarding the processing to the contest framework. A communicating with the transactional server at least comprises associating the game with a progressive jackpot contest and setting parameters for the progressive jackpot contest.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09633513&OS=09633513&RS=09633513
owner: Jackpot Rising Inc.
number: 09633513
owner_city: Dallas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160726
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 973 164 filed Dec. 17 2015 which is a continuation in part of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 573 593 entitled A Method and System for Gaming Review filed Dec. 17 2014. The entire contents of both Serial No. 14 973 164 and No. 14 573 593 are incorporated by reference.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

One or more embodiments of the invention generally relate to a mobile gaming platform. More particularly the invention relates to an application interface API and software development kit SDK that allows third party developers to generate gaming revenue for their online and mobile games.

The following background information may present examples of specific aspects of the prior art e.g. without limitation approaches facts or common wisdom that while expected to be helpful to further educate the reader are not to be construed as limiting the present invention or any embodiments thereof to anything stated or implied therein or inferred thereupon.

In the 24 billion mobile gaming industry a majority of in application in app revenue is generated from purchases of virtual currencies and goods mobile players spend tens of billions of dollars each year for the challenge to accumulate the most virtual items which hold zero value outside of the games that they play and to add their names at the top of the leader boards. At best this tendency is a testament to game stickiness which arises from any factor that encourages a player to stay longer and to return. However to remain relevant in the gaming industry third party developers must not only promote the mirage of value associated with virtual incentives they must also continuously update their games as well as try to retain users while monetizing their games at the same time. In view of the foregoing it is clear that this approach is not perfect and leaves room for more optimal approaches.

The following is an example of a specific aspect in the prior art that while expected to be helpful to further educate the reader as to additional aspects of the prior art is not to be construed as limiting the present invention or any embodiments thereof to anything stated or implied therein or inferred thereupon. One such aspect of the prior art is believed to show a methods and systems for interfacing with a third party application. Although it appears that the systems and methods disclosed are directed primarily to gaming machines and systems some of the apparatuses systems and methods disclosed might be adaptable for use in other types of devices systems or environments as applicable such that their use is not restricted exclusively to gaming machines and contexts. At least one display device may be a mobile display device such as a PDA or tablet PC that enables play of at least a portion of the primary or secondary game at a location remote from the gaming machine. For example it is believed that the remote host or another host may provide a progressive game with a progressive jackpot to a group of gaming machines and that the gaming machine to which the remote host is sending content may be operable to play the progressive game but may not be currently participating in the progressive game at a particular time and thus not contributing to the jackpot which in this example is one indicator of the group state of the gaming machine in the group. It is believed that when the progressive jackpot reaches a certain level or a game participant player completes a certain task or a user creates qualifying notification settings the remote host may send information to the gaming machine to indicate that the jackpot has reached a certain threshold to entice a player on the gaming machine to join the progressive game. Thus it appears that the remote host may dynamically adjust content sent to the gaming machine based upon a group state for a group of gaming machines that the gaming machine is currently not affecting. Additionally in other embodiments it is believed that the request sent by third party device may include a request to obtain a SDK from server based system. It appears that in these embodiments the SDK is used by third party user to develop the content approval application or the graphical element creation application. Moreover it is believed that in other embodiments the SDK is used by third party user to develop content that is displayed on gaming display device where the SDK includes the graphical element creation application.

By way of educational background another aspect of the prior art generally useful to be aware of is that of what appears to be a gaming reality system and a mobile device that features the application of providing the player with many opportunities to win awards such as cash or prizes to maintain a player s interest in a gaming machine. The application also appears to teach of using progressive jackpots for more experienced players which may cause strategy to vary depending upon the current progressive amount. The application appears to make calls to the augmented reality technology SDK to determine if a tag is present in the current live camera image and if so the SDK returns the position of the tag relative to the user in 3D space. Additionally the SDK appears compatible with Unity plugin an Android or Apple smartphone tablet with a rear facing camera and ARM processor and a video gaming machine with LCD or other flat screen displays.

As a point of educational reference such approaches may not provide a progressive jackpot rewards system where gamers are allow to make as many attempts as they wish no cap at attaining the high score of a contest given that they have sufficient funds in their account and the contest time has not expired. Additionally such approaches may not provide a dynamic rewards structure that may be manipulated by for example a web based dashboard to perform varies functions such as create contests implement different payout structures adjust contest parameters and send content messages and notifications to players. Furthermore such approaches may not provide a social element that allows players to share contests and statuses such as jackpot amounts with others.

In view of the foregoing it is clear that these traditional techniques are not perfect and leave room for more optimal approaches.

The present invention is best understood by reference to the detailed figures and description set forth herein.

Embodiments of the invention are discussed below with reference to the Figures. However those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that the detailed description given herein with respect to these figures is for explanatory purposes as the invention extends beyond these limited embodiments. For example it should be appreciated that those skilled in the art will in light of the teachings of the present invention recognize a multiplicity of alternate and suitable approaches depending upon the needs of the particular application to implement the functionality of any given detail described herein beyond the particular implementation choices in the following embodiments described and shown. That is there are numerous modifications and variations of the invention that are too numerous to be listed but that all fit within the scope of the invention. Also singular words should be read as plural and vice versa and masculine as feminine and vice versa where appropriate and alternative embodiments do not necessarily imply that the two are mutually exclusive.

It is to be further understood that the present invention is not limited to the particular methodology compounds materials manufacturing techniques uses and applications described herein as these may vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is used for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. It must be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include the plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example a reference to an element is a reference to one or more elements and includes equivalents thereof known to those skilled in the art. Similarly for another example a reference to a step or a means is a reference to one or more steps or means and may include sub steps and subservient means. All conjunctions used are to be understood in the most inclusive sense possible. Thus the word or should be understood as having the definition of a logical or rather than that of a logical exclusive or unless the context clearly necessitates otherwise. Structures described herein are to be understood also to refer to functional equivalents of such structures. Language that may be construed to express approximation should be so understood unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meanings as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. Preferred methods techniques devices and materials are described although any methods techniques devices or materials similar or equivalent to those described herein may be used in the practice or testing of the present invention. Structures described herein are to be understood also to refer to functional equivalents of such structures. The present invention will now be described in detail with reference to embodiments thereof as illustrated in the accompanying drawings.

From reading the present disclosure other variations and modifications will be apparent to persons skilled in the art. Such variations and modifications may involve equivalent and other features which are already known in the art and which may be used instead of or in addition to features already described herein.

Although Claims have been formulated in this application to particular combinations of features it should be understood that the scope of the disclosure of the present invention also includes any novel feature or any novel combination of features disclosed herein either explicitly or implicitly or any generalization thereof whether or not it relates to the same invention as presently claimed in any Claim and whether or not it mitigates any or all of the same technical problems as does the present invention.

Features which are described in the context of separate embodiments may also be provided in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features which are for brevity described in the context of a single embodiment may also be provided separately or in any suitable subcombination. The Applicants hereby give notice that new Claims may be formulated to such features and or combinations of such features during the prosecution of the present application or of any further application derived therefrom.

References to one embodiment an embodiment example embodiment various embodiments etc. may indicate that the embodiment s of the invention so described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but not every embodiment necessarily includes the particular feature structure or characteristic. Further repeated use of the phrase in one embodiment or in an exemplary embodiment do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment although they may.

Headings provided herein are for convenience and are not to be taken as limiting the disclosure in any way.

The enumerated listing of items does not imply that any or all of the items are mutually exclusive unless expressly specified otherwise.

Devices or system modules that are in at least general communication with each other need not be in continuous communication with each other unless expressly specified otherwise. In addition devices or system modules that are in at least general communication with each other may communicate directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries.

A description of an embodiment with several components in communication with each other does not imply that all such components are required. On the contrary a variety of optional components are described to illustrate the wide variety of possible embodiments of the present invention.

As is well known to those skilled in the art many careful considerations and compromises typically must be made when designing for the optimal manufacture of a commercial implementation any system and in particular the embodiments of the present invention. A commercial implementation in accordance with the spirit and teachings of the present invention may configured according to the needs of the particular application whereby any aspect s feature s function s result s component s approach es or step s of the teachings related to any described embodiment of the present invention may be suitably omitted included adapted mixed and matched or improved and or optimized by those skilled in the art using their average skills and known techniques to achieve the desired implementation that addresses the needs of the particular application.

A computer may refer to one or more apparatus and or one or more systems that are capable of accepting a structured input processing the structured input according to prescribed rules and producing results of the processing as output. Examples of a computer may include a computer a stationary and or portable computer a computer having a single processor multiple processors or multi core processors which may operate in parallel and or not in parallel a general purpose computer a supercomputer a mainframe a super mini computer a mini computer a workstation a micro computer a server a client an interactive television a web appliance a telecommunications device with internet access a hybrid combination of a computer and an interactive television a portable computer a tablet personal computer PC a personal digital assistant PDA a portable telephone application specific hardware to emulate a computer and or software such as for example a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA an application specific integrated circuit ASIC an application specific instruction set processor ASIP a chip chips a system on a chip or a chip set a data acquisition device an optical computer a quantum computer a biological computer and generally an apparatus that may accept data process data according to one or more stored software programs generate results and typically include input output storage arithmetic logic and control units.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that where appropriate some embodiments of the disclosure may be practiced in network computing environments with many types of computer system configurations including personal computers hand held devices multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Where appropriate embodiments may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by local and remote processing devices that are linked either by hardwired links wireless links or by a combination thereof through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

 Software may refer to prescribed rules to operate a computer. Examples of software may include code segments in one or more computer readable languages graphical and or textual instructions applets pre compiled code interpreted code compiled code and computer programs.

The example embodiments described herein can be implemented in an operating environment comprising computer executable instructions e.g. software installed on a computer in hardware or in a combination of software and hardware. The computer executable instructions can be written in a computer programming language or can be embodied in firmware logic. If written in a programming language conforming to a recognized standard such instructions can be executed on a variety of hardware platforms and for interfaces to a variety of operating systems. Although not limited thereto computer software program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention can be written in any combination of one or more suitable programming languages including an object oriented programming languages and or conventional procedural programming languages and or programming languages such as for example Hyper text Markup Language HTML Dynamic HTML Extensible Markup Language XML Extensible Stylesheet Language XSL Document Style Semantics and Specification Language DSSSL Cascading Style Sheets CSS Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language SMIL Wireless Markup Language WML Java Jini C C Smalltalk Perl UNIX Shell Visual Basic or Visual Basic Script Virtual Reality Markup Language VRML ColdFusion or other compilers assemblers interpreters or other computer languages or platforms.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

A network is a collection of links and nodes e.g. multiple computers and or other devices connected together arranged so that information may be passed from one part of the network to another over multiple links and through various nodes. Examples of networks include the Internet the public switched telephone network the global Telex network computer networks e.g. an intranet an extranet a local area network or a wide area network wired networks and wireless networks.

The Internet is a worldwide network of computers and computer networks arranged to allow the easy and robust exchange of information between computer users. Hundreds of millions of people around the world have access to computers connected to the Internet via Internet Service Providers ISPs . Content providers e.g. website owners or operators place multimedia information e.g. text graphics audio video animation and other forms of data at specific locations on the Internet referred to as webpages. Websites comprise a collection of connected or otherwise related webpages. The combination of all the websites and their corresponding webpages on the Internet is generally known as the World Wide Web WWW or simply the Web.

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

Further although process steps method steps algorithms or the like may be described in a sequential order such processes methods and algorithms may be configured to work in alternate orders. In other words any sequence or order of steps that may be described does not necessarily indicate a requirement that the steps be performed in that order. The steps of processes described herein may be performed in any order practical. Further some steps may be performed simultaneously.

It will be readily apparent that the various methods and algorithms described herein may be implemented by e.g. appropriately programmed general purpose computers and computing devices. Typically a processor e.g. a microprocessor will receive instructions from a memory or like device and execute those instructions thereby performing a process defined by those instructions. Further programs that implement such methods and algorithms may be stored and transmitted using a variety of known media.

When a single device or article is described herein it will be readily apparent that more than one device article whether or not they cooperate may be used in place of a single device article. Similarly where more than one device or article is described herein whether or not they cooperate it will be readily apparent that a single device article may be used in place of the more than one device or article.

The functionality and or the features of a device may be alternatively embodied by one or more other devices which are not explicitly described as having such functionality features. Thus other embodiments of the present invention need not include the device itself.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing data e.g. instructions which may be read by a computer a processor or a like device. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks and other persistent memory. Volatile media include dynamic random access memory DRAM which typically constitutes the main memory. Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise a system bus coupled to the processor. Transmission media may include or convey acoustic waves light waves and electromagnetic emissions such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying sequences of instructions to a processor. For example sequences of instruction i may be delivered from RAM to a processor ii may be carried over a wireless transmission medium and or iii may be formatted according to numerous formats standards or protocols such as Bluetooth TDMA CDMA 3G.

Where databases are described it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that i alternative database structures to those described may be readily employed ii other memory structures besides databases may be readily employed. Any schematic illustrations and accompanying descriptions of any sample databases presented herein are exemplary arrangements for stored representations of information. Any number of other arrangements may be employed besides those suggested by the tables shown. Similarly any illustrated entries of the databases represent exemplary information only those skilled in the art will understand that the number and content of the entries can be different from those illustrated herein. Further despite any depiction of the databases as tables an object based model could be used to store and manipulate the data types of the present invention and likewise object methods or behaviors can be used to implement the processes of the present invention.

A computer system may refer to a system having one or more computers where each computer may include a computer readable medium embodying software to operate the computer or one or more of its components. Examples of a computer system may include a distributed computer system for processing information via computer systems linked by a network two or more computer systems connected together via a network for transmitting and or receiving information between the computer systems a computer system including two or more processors within a single computer and one or more apparatuses and or one or more systems that may accept data may process data in accordance with one or more stored software programs may generate results and typically may include input output storage arithmetic logic and control units.

A network may refer to a number of computers and associated devices that may be connected by communication facilities. A network may involve permanent connections such as cables or temporary connections such as those made through telephone or other communication links. A network may further include hard wired connections e.g. coaxial cable twisted pair optical fiber waveguides etc. and or wireless connections e.g. radio frequency waveforms free space optical waveforms acoustic waveforms etc. . Examples of a network may include an internet such as the Internet an intranet a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and a combination of networks such as an internet and an intranet.

As used herein the client side application should be broadly construed to refer to an application a page associated with that application or some other resource or function invoked by a client side request to the application. A browser as used herein is not intended to refer to any specific browser e.g. Internet Explorer Safari FireFox or the like but should be broadly construed to refer to any client side rendering engine that can access and display Internet accessible resources. A rich client typically refers to a non HTTP based client side application such as an SSH or CFIS client. Further while typically the client server interactions occur using HTTP this is not a limitation either. The client server interaction may be formatted to conform to the Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP and travel over HTTP over the public Internet FTP or any other reliable transport mechanism such as IBM MQSeries technologies and CORBA for transport over an enterprise intranet may be used. Any application or functionality described herein may be implemented as native code by providing hooks into another application by facilitating use of the mechanism as a plug in by linking to the mechanism and the like.

Exemplary networks may operate with any of a number of protocols such as Internet protocol IP asynchronous transfer mode ATM and or synchronous optical network SONET user datagram protocol UDP IEEE 802.x etc.

Embodiments of the present invention may include apparatuses for performing the operations disclosed herein. An apparatus may be specially constructed for the desired purposes or it may comprise a general purpose device selectively activated or reconfigured by a program stored in the device.

Embodiments of the invention may also be implemented in one or a combination of hardware firmware and software. They may be implemented as instructions stored on a machine readable medium which may be read and executed by a computing platform to perform the operations described herein.

More specifically as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

In the following description and claims the terms computer program medium and computer readable medium may be used to generally refer to media such as but not limited to removable storage drives a hard disk installed in hard disk drive and the like. These computer program products may provide software to a computer system. Embodiments of the invention may be directed to such computer program products.

An algorithm is here and generally considered to be a self consistent sequence of acts or operations leading to a desired result. These include physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like. It should be understood however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities.

Unless specifically stated otherwise and as may be apparent from the following description and claims it should be appreciated that throughout the specification descriptions utilizing terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulate and or transform data represented as physical such as electronic quantities within the computing system s registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computing system s memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

In a similar manner the term processor may refer to any device or portion of a device that processes electronic data from registers and or memory to transform that electronic data into other electronic data that may be stored in registers and or memory. A computing platform may comprise one or more processors.

Embodiments within the scope of the present disclosure may also include tangible and or non transitory computer readable storage media for carrying or having computer executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such non transitory computer readable storage media can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer including the functional design of any special purpose processor as discussed above. By way of example and not limitation such non transitory computer readable media can include RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions data structures or processor chip design. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or combination thereof to a computer the computer properly views the connection as a computer readable medium. Thus any such connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of the computer readable media.

While a non transitory computer readable medium includes but is not limited to a hard drive compact disc flash memory volatile memory random access memory magnetic memory optical memory semiconductor based memory phase change memory optical memory periodically refreshed memory and the like the non transitory computer readable medium however does not include a pure transitory signal per se i.e. where the medium itself is transitory.

Some embodiments of the present invention may provide means and or methods for storage analysis and or management of data. In some of these embodiments data may be provided by users and or received from external software. Many embodiments and variations thereof may provide for a framework for contests.

Client may communicate bi directionally with local network via a communication channel . Client may communicate bi directionally with local network via a communication channel . Local network may communicate bi directionally with global network via a communication channel . Local network may communicate bi directionally with global network via a communication channel . Global network may communicate bi directionally with server and server via a communication channel . Server and server may communicate bi directionally with each other via communication channel . Furthermore clients local networks global network and servers may each communicate bi directionally with each other.

In one embodiment global network may operate as the Internet. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that communication system may take many different forms. Non limiting examples of forms for communication system include local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs wired telephone networks wireless networks or any other network supporting data communication between respective entities.

Clients and may take many different forms. Non limiting examples of clients and include personal computers personal digital assistants PDAs cellular phones and smartphones.

Client includes a CPU a pointing device a keyboard a microphone a printer a memory a mass memory storage a GUI a video camera an input output interface and a network interface .

CPU pointing device keyboard microphone printer memory mass memory storage GUI video camera input output interface and network interface may communicate in a unidirectional manner or a bi directional manner with each other via a communication channel . Communication channel may be configured as a single communication channel or a multiplicity of communication channels.

CPU may be comprised of a single processor or multiple processors. CPU may be of various types including micro controllers e.g. with embedded RAM ROM and microprocessors such as programmable devices e.g. RISC or SISC based or CPLDs and FPGAs and devices not capable of being programmed such as gate array ASICs Application Specific Integrated Circuits or general purpose microprocessors.

As is well known in the art memory is used typically to transfer data and instructions to CPU in a bi directional manner. Memory as discussed previously may include any suitable computer readable media intended for data storage such as those described above excluding any wired or wireless transmissions unless specifically noted. Mass memory storage may also be coupled bi directionally to CPU and provides additional data storage capacity and may include any of the computer readable media described above. Mass memory storage may be used to store programs data and the like and is typically a secondary storage medium such as a hard disk. It will be appreciated that the information retained within mass memory storage may in appropriate cases be incorporated in standard fashion as part of memory as virtual memory.

CPU may be coupled to GUI . GUI enables a user to view the operation of computer operating system and software. CPU may be coupled to pointing device . Non limiting examples of pointing device include computer mouse trackball and touchpad. Pointing device enables a user with the capability to maneuver a computer cursor about the viewing area of GUI and select areas or features in the viewing area of GUI . CPU may be coupled to keyboard . Keyboard enables a user with the capability to input alphanumeric textual information to CPU . CPU may be coupled to microphone . Microphone enables audio produced by a user to be recorded processed and communicated by CPU . CPU may be connected to printer . Printer enables a user with the capability to print information to a sheet of paper. CPU may be connected to video camera . Video camera enables video produced or captured by user to be recorded processed and communicated by CPU .

CPU may also be coupled to input output interface that connects to one or more input output devices such as such as CD ROM video monitors track balls mice keyboards microphones touch sensitive displays transducer card readers magnetic or paper tape readers tablets styluses voice or handwriting recognizers or other well known input devices such as of course other computers.

Finally CPU optionally may be coupled to network interface which enables communication with an external device such as a database or a computer or telecommunications or internet network using an external connection shown generally as communication channel which may be implemented as a hardwired or wireless communications link using suitable conventional technologies. With such a connection CPU might receive information from the network or might output information to a network in the course of performing the method steps described in the teachings of the present invention.

Network region and network region may operate to represent a network contained within a geographical area or region. Non limiting examples of representations for the geographical areas for the networked regions may include postal zip codes telephone area codes states counties cities and countries. Elements within network region and may operate to communicate with external elements within other networked regions or within elements contained within the same network region.

In some implementations global network may operate as the Internet. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that communication system may take many different forms. Non limiting examples of forms for communication system include local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs wired telephone networks cellular telephone networks or any other network supporting data communication between respective entities via hardwired or wireless communication networks. Global network may operate to transfer information between the various networked elements.

Server device and server device may operate to execute software instructions store information support database operations and communicate with other networked elements. Non limiting examples of software and scripting languages which may be executed on server device and server device include C C C and Java.

Network region may operate to communicate bi directionally with global network via a communication channel . Network region may operate to communicate bi directionally with global network via a communication channel . Server device may operate to communicate bi directionally with global network via a communication channel . Server device may operate to communicate bi directionally with global network via a communication channel . Network region and global network and server devices and may operate to communicate with each other and with every other networked device located within communication system .

Server device includes a networking device and a server . Networking device may operate to communicate bi directionally with global network via communication channel and with server via a communication channel . Server may operate to execute software instructions and store information.

Network region includes a multiplicity of clients with a sampling denoted as a client and a client . Client includes a networking device a processor a GUI and an interface device . Non limiting examples of devices for GUI include monitors televisions cellular telephones smartphones and PDAs Personal Digital Assistants . Non limiting examples of interface device include pointing device mouse trackball scanner and printer. Networking device may communicate bi directionally with global network via communication channel and with processor via a communication channel . GUI may receive information from processor via a communication channel for presentation to a user for viewing. Interface device may operate to send control information to processor and to receive information from processor via a communication channel . Network region includes a multiplicity of clients with a sampling denoted as a client and a client . Client includes a networking device a processor a GUI and an interface device . Non limiting examples of devices for GUI include monitors televisions cellular telephones smartphones and PDAs Personal Digital Assistants . Non limiting examples of interface device include pointing devices mousse trackballs scanners and printers. Networking device may communicate bi directionally with global network via communication channel and with processor via a communication channel . GUI may receive information from processor via a communication channel for presentation to a user for viewing. Interface device may operate to send control information to processor and to receive information from processor via a communication channel .

For example consider the case where a user interfacing with client may want to execute a networked application. A user may enter the IP Internet Protocol address for the networked application using interface device . The IP address information may be communicated to processor via communication channel . Processor may then communicate the IP address information to networking device via communication channel . Networking device may then communicate the IP address information to global network via communication channel . Global network may then communicate the IP address information to networking device of server device via communication channel . Networking device may then communicate the IP address information to server via communication channel . Server may receive the IP address information and after processing the IP address information may communicate return information to networking device via communication channel . Networking device may communicate the return information to global network via communication channel . Global network may communicate the return information to networking device via communication channel . Networking device may communicate the return information to processor via communication channel . Processor may communicate the return information to GUI via communication channel . User may then view the return information on GUI .

In the present embodiment the software has a backend web dashboard that third party developers log into in order to manage the integration and parameters associated with their integrated game s and contests . The dashboard without limitation may allow third party developers to perform functions such as create new contests set parameters of contests and view analytics of contests held. In a non limiting example the third party developer may set contest metrics in determining winner prize allocation and details. In the present embodiment through the dashboard the third party developer may without limitation set the fee per attempt amount for each contest adjust the percent of each attempt fee that goes toward jackpot and revenue split by the third party developer and the administrator customize jackpot notification displays in their app send a message to all users send in app notifications real time view player analytics and other controls. The dashboard may provide the administrator with an executive account that oversees and manages without limitation all the third party developers and player accounts. The administrator may be able to adjust accessibility rights for all parties on the platform including freezing or terminating third party developer accounts. The dashboard also communicates with the SDK and the transactional server in order to maintain and display real time data. In an alternate embodiment dashboard may communicate directly with gaming server .

In the present embodiment the web dashboard may have an analytics section that allows third party developers without limitation to view contest and user participation data through without limitation the number of attempts made the amount wagered the estimated revenue generated based on percentage set and other metrics and graphs. In the present embodiment the analytics section may enable players to view a complete detailed profile that includes without limitation the player s performance history contests played number of plays amount wagered attempt results and high scores and the suggested contests and or games based on historical data. If a player has synced one of their social media accounts for example but not limited to completing the sign up process using a Facebook Twitter Google account or any other social media account or linking a social media account in the player s profile settings the player may also view their friends profiles and view how well they are performing. In some embodiments the player may also import his or her email contacts to see which of his or her friends are members and automatically connect with them via the web dashboard . In a non limiting example a social graph that ranks a users performance s against his her friends performance s within different games and contests may be viewed. In another non limiting example players may be able to view a news feed that lists integrated games current contests with the progressive jackpot sizes across the platform. In the present embodiment the Administrator may have the highest level of visibility in the analytics section. The Administrator may be enabled to find out how the system is performing on the basis of different parameters including without limitation the following number of attempts made by players number of contests created by third party developer the total money flow adoption rates geographical distribution of players and third party developers any exceptions or errors in the SDK or web dashboard response times of APIs active player counts and screen wise dropouts.

In the present embodiment the web application may immediately update the milestones in the database and may recalculate the standings of each user. In a non limiting example once data from an attempt is received by the transactional server the web dashboard may then refresh to include and display the most recent attempt data and most updated version of a leaderboard along with all other pertinent contest information and details . In the present embodiment to synchronize the platforms the communications may utilize https to ensure each transaction is secured through SSL certificates. When a third party developer intends to display and promote a custom version of the leaderboard of a contest the API may be provided to the third party developer in a JSON format to use for a custom leaderboard. Otherwise in the present embodiment the third party developer may be provided with a generic UI to use one function of the SDK to get the latest leaderboard from the server using API. In a non limiting example the UI leaderboard may be customizable to include colors and logo of the third party developer .

In the present embodiment a contest winner is based on the predefined rules established through the parameters. In a non limiting example the parameters may be start and end time type of contest metric used for ranking purposes such as but not limited to fastest time most points most kills etc. and an attempt fee amount . The contest end is based upon the contest end time parameter with the winner s calculated by the web application. In alternative embodiments the end of the contest may be based on when a player reaches a certain milestone such as but not limited to a certain high score instead of time. As a non limiting example first one to get 40 kills in one attempt wins the progressive jackpot amount at that point in time. The results are pushed using in app notifications push notifications and email addresses. Winner s account s may be credited with winning amount of the progressive jackpot based on the payout structure parameters established in the web dashboard and the associated payout with their position on the leaderboard.

In the present embodiment players may be able to share statuses such as without limitation a current contest with jackpot amount performance and or attempt score winnings and other messages via social media email and SMS.

In the present embodiment the software automatically populates updates and keeps track of each contest leaderboard . Each attempt that is reported either by the SDK or by the third party gaming server is graded or ranked against all previous attempts made in the contest respectively. The third party gaming server and or SDK know which data from the attempt results to report to server because the parameters of the contest were defined by either the developer or administrator in the web dashboard .

In the present embodiment the SDK may be optimal for use in online and mobile games of skill. In a non limiting example games of skill are those in which a player is ranked predominantly by in game abilities as opposed to games whose outcomes are predominantly dependent on chance. In another non limiting example games of skill may include without limitation racing sports fighting strategy trivia and word games.

In the present embodiment when the contest time has expired the contest closes and players may not able to enter the contest by making another attempt however players who entered the contest before the contest time expired are given a preset extension of time to allow the player to finish the game attempt and have the player s score reported and factored into the final leaderboard and prize ranking. The preset extension is set in web dashboard .

In the present embodiment all players developers and administrator accounts are universal amongst all integrated apps. In a non limiting example if a user accesses their account playing Game A the account such as but not limited to an account balance if attempts were made is updated and in sync when they go to play and enter contests in Game B.

In some embodiments third party developers may have the ability via the web dashboard to auto repeat expired contests if desired or may create a new contest to begin as soon as the previous contest ends or the option to not run a new contest at all.

In some embodiments third party developers may create custom notifications that may be designed for and delivered to a developer s user base via the web dashboard . The custom notifications may without limitation notify users of updates such as deposit bonuses jackpot statuses and or an ad to participate in a contest including a link that directs them to the initial verification authentication process. Developers may also set notifications to without limitation pop up automatically interstitially throughout the game app based on defined parameters as assigned in the web dashboard and or as a notification sent out to all of the participants and users notifying them of the end of the contest .

In some embodiments the software may deliver contests notifications and updates to users via its own app website dashboard or game. In a non limiting example users interested in learning more about different contests and games that have integrated the SDK may download the app or visit the website that displays all running contests or upcoming contests in a contest lobby and displays the status of each including without limitation the current jackpot amount and the current high score and leader .

In some embodiments users may be directed to the contest lobby from a notification within a third party game which has integrated the SDK .

In some embodiments the leaderboard is customizable by the developers to help fit in with their game design.

In some embodiments the software may have listeners embedded throughout to monitor and report user interaction data including without limitation metrics and trip actions that notify the SDK dashboard and server to perform a certain action.

In some embodiments the SDK may be linked without limitation to online gaming sites for skill and or chance apps and machines sports or events wagering arcade games virtual reality games auction apps and or website and funding platforms. In a non limiting example funding platforms may include crowd funding sites.

In an alternative embodiment the SDK may be linked with fantasy sports games. In a non limiting example Yahoo Fantasy football may be linked to create a jackpot payout for specified leaders.

Specifically in four mobile devices are shown including mobile device mobile device mobile device and mobile device . Mobile device and mobile device are illustrated as being associated with mobile game app mobile device with mobile game app and mobile device with mobile game app . As described each game associated with the gaming platform may at registration be associated with a uniquely defined API key here referenced as Auth key where the unique API key can be used to identify or label particular contest entries as associated with the corresponding developer and game. In this way where contest entries are received by the transactional server in a multi game multi user and or multi developer instance those contest entries can be parsed authenticated and correctly applied to the corresponding accounts and contests.

Each of the mobile devices as illustrated can represent a mobile device e.g. a mobile phone tablet laptop etc. as well as any other suitable gaming system such as a PC a Mac an arcade system among others. The mobile game apps may each be any suitable gaming application operable to be executed on the illustrated mobile devices or the corresponding alternative systems . As shown the mobile game apps may include or have embedded one or more event based API calls in the code or programming of the app such that in response to particular events e.g. completion of a contest attempt registration for a contest request for leaderboard etc. the event based API call is triggered by the mobile game app such that a suitable corresponding API request is generated and sent to a particular API target . Further description of the formatting contents and parsing of the API requests is described in .

Each mobile game app is embedded with or associated with a corresponding SDK where the SDK includes an identification of the specific Auth key and a secret scheme ID where the scheme ID is used as a secret encryption key associated with the particular mobile game app . The scheme ID is known by the SDK and the backend system e.g. the API targets and or the transactional server . As described in the backend system can perform an encryption of the known Auth key using the known scheme ID to determine if the encrypted version of the Auth key matches what is received in the API request.

The user credentials provide an identification of or link to the user associated with a particular contest attempt and can be included in API calls requests associated with a contest. Additionally the user credentials can be used to direct responsive messages or notifications from the transactional server in response to requests received from those users mobile devices .

As illustrated the event based API calls generate API requests that are targeted to a specific API target . In some instances the set of API targets may include a plurality of API endpoints where the API endpoints correspond to the particular actions to be performed with regard to a particular contest. For example the API endpoints may be associated with particular URLs Uniform Resource Locater or URIs Uniform Resource Identifier for example www.jackpotrising.com newattempt and www.jackpotrising.com leaderboard for submitting information related to a new attempt or a request for the current leaderboard respectively. The API calls may be used to call specific API endpoints i.e. those used to communicate from the devices to the transactional server . Conversely return communications from the transactional server may in some instances use a second set of API endpoints which are used to communicate from the transactional server to the particular devices .

The API endpoints may include a content parser respectively and an event trigger respectively . The content parsers may be used to parse and understand the subject matter of the API request received. In some instances the content parser may perform one or more operations to authenticate particular requests such as by validating the Auth key received from a particular device . The event triggers can perform an action associated with the specific API endpoint such as for event trigger causing a particular operation at the transactional server to be performed or otherwise called e.g. to submit a score to a particular contest to provide an updated leaderboard to register a user account etc. . For requests sent to a particular device the event trigger may cause actions to be performed at the device such as to present a set of leaderboard data request additional information or notify the end user of contest information among others. In instances of communication from the transactional server to a particular device information included in the API request sent to the API endpoint may include an identification of a particular device and or user with which a communication is targeted with the content parser identifying the appropriate recipient and performing the corresponding action associated with the recipient. For requests sent to the transactional server the event trigger and or other functionality of the API endpoint can push or otherwise provide the payload of the API request as originally received or in a reformatted or revised version to the transactional server for incorporation in and association with the stored data of the various contests and accounts.

As illustrated the transactional server includes a gaming manager a set of contest jackpot accounts a set of developer accounts a set of user accounts and a gaming platform account . The gaming manager is software associated with the management of the various existing contests and accounts. The portions illustrated herein are similar to those described in prior figures and are described here for purposes of explaining the management of multiple contests associated with multiple games developers and users. For example the gaming manager includes a financial module and a gaming module . The gaming module manages the various contests being operated including the contest jackpot accounts which identify that status of particular contests associated with various games.

As illustrated in the contest jackpot accounts include contests for game game and game . Additionally information on previous and now closed contests for different games may be included in the contest jackpot accounts as well as information regarding one or more co pending contests such as public and private contests limited by skill location invitation or other groupings. Still further different contests for a single game may be available based on different metrics such as one contest for highest score and one for most kills or another suitable performance metric. No specific limit for the number of contests associated with a particular game at a time is provided as users and or developers may initiate different types of contest with different requirements and or participation criteria. The gaming module can perform the necessary operations to manage the continuing operation of the various contests associating entry information received from the API endpoints with the correct contest. Further the gaming module can based on the information received generate a responsive communication to confirm receipt of the information and where appropriate a responsive communication. For example where a contest attempt is received for contest A of game a confirmation that the entry is received and confirmed may be generated as well as a copy of the current leaderboard or relative results of the attempt. The gaming module can send such a communication to the device associated with the attempt by sending the request to the corresponding API endpoint along with the payload of information notifying the user of the relative results of his attempt. Additional relevant information may be included in the communication including a remaining amount of funds in the user s account remaining time in the contest and other relevant information. Further similar responsive communications may be provided by the gaming manager in response to other types of communications with the gaming manager preparing a responsive set of information and providing that information to the appropriate API endpoint for sending to the relevant device .

The financial module of the gaming manager can be used to manage the financial aspects of the various contests including managing the funds associated with current jackpots associated with various contests transferring user funds from the user accounts to the developer accounts associated with the game in which a contest attempt is made as well as to the gaming platform account managing the contests. The developer accounts may include one or more accounts associated with each developer e.g. accounts for developer and developer registered with the gaming platform. For simpler maintenance of funds each game registered by a developer may be associated with its own game account with each game account tied to a particular developer. Alternatively funds for the various games of a particular developer may be comingled with an account or ledger maintained for accounting purposes. As illustrated in developer is associated with two accounts for different games game app account and game app account while developer is associated with a single game game app account . When attempts are received for game app or game app the financial module credits the developer accordingly based on the predetermined splitting of content attempt fees with the gaming platform to the corresponding account. Similarly the appropriate funds are also deposited into the gaming platform account based on that split. In some instances these accounts may be used as accounting ledgers with the actual funds being provided and transferred outside of the transactional server .

User accounts can be created in response to users registering with the gaming platform. When incoming contest attempts are received the user credentials associated with the attempt can be matched to a particular user account e.g. user account user account user account and user account with funds from the corresponding account being transferred by the financial module in the correct splits to the appropriate developer account and the gaming platform account . The financial module and the gaming module therefore work in combination to manage and operate the various contests while interpreting acting upon and responding to contest related requests from the devices .

As illustrated a device associated with User id includes and has installed game X . Game X has previously been registered with the gaming platform and as such has embedded and incorporated the SDK which including information on an Auth key and a scheme ID specific to the particular registration of Game X . In other words the gaming platform has provided two specific identifiers to Game X a public identifier an Auth key of value 123456 and a private secret identifier a scheme ID of value AbC01z. The public identifier may be an authentication token or a public shared key. The secret identifier is provided to the developer upon registration and integrated into the code of the game and is considered a secret key. The secret key is stored on both the device and the transactional server and is not passed in any API call or request in order to maintain its secrecy.

In response to an action associated with a contest the operations of Game X generate an API request to be sent to an API endpoint corresponding to the contest action. The particular API endpoint to which the API request is to be sent may also be hard coded or included in the code of Game X such that the appropriate API is called in response to the contest action. The API request generated includes information identifying the particular user associated with the contest action here User id of 12 the public Auth key value here value of 123456 an encrypted string here 5d6f687627 and a set of game action related data associated with the action being requested. The game action related data may be the result of an attempt an indication or parameter associated with a request for information or any other suitable information associated with the game action and relevant to the action to be performed at the transactional server . Further instead of sending the secret key of the scheme ID a string i.e. the known public Auth key value is encrypted using the secret scheme key to generate a hash value. Without the scheme key a validation of the encrypted string and its hash value is not possible. As illustrated the API request can be sent via any suitable communications medium including the Internet an Intranet or any suitable network .

The API request is received at the API endpoint to which it is directed. The API endpoints may include any number of modules and operations including those illustrated. In the API endpoints are illustrated as including a game action module a game identifier module a game authenticator module and a payload parser . The game action module may be specifically associated with the API endpoint such that API requests received at the particular API endpoint are associated with a particular action at the transactional server . For example each API request received at a particular API endpoint may be associated with contest attempts being made and submitted to the transactional server . In those instances that API endpoint may perform the operations associated with sending those scores to the appropriate game which can also perform operations for transferring the attempt fees from a user account associated with the User ID of the party associated with the attempt into the accounts of the developer associated with the game and an account associated with the gaming platform. To manage the application of the requested actions the game identifier module and the game authenticator module are used.

The game identifier module can use the Auth key included in the API request to identify a game associated with the request. Additional techniques may be used to identify a particular contest for the game with which to associate the attempt. Specifically the Auth key received is matched to a table or listing stored at or referenced by the transaction server to determine with which game the request is associated. Along with the identification of the corresponding game the stored secret scheme ID associated with the identified Auth key is located. The game authenticator module then independently performs a function identical to the generation of the encrypted string performed by the device by encrypting the Auth key using the stored scheme ID to generate a second hash. A determination is made as to whether the received encrypted string or hash value matches the independently generated encrypted string or hash created at the transactional server . If a match is confirmed then the API request is authenticated as associated with the game corresponding to the received Auth key and the particular contest action as defined by the game action module can be performed. The payload parser can manage the game data and payload information to ensure the correct information is passed to the transactional server and its gaming operations after the authentication is complete.

As illustrated the game authentication database is used to store information on the generated keys associated with each game. For example as shown a Game includes a set of keys the Auth key with a value of 452410 and a scheme ID with a value of Xyz924 . The stored keys of Game X of course match the keys embedded within game X and its SDK .

At the developer may establish the parameters for the contest. In a non limiting example the developer may establish parameters such as attempt fee amount one or more metrics to guide or rank participants results contest type payout structure notifications notification settings and the start and end time. In another non limiting example the game types may be most kills most points and fastest times. In another non limiting example the payout structure may be set as one winner takes all top 5 payout top 10 payout or a percent of the jackpot paid to any capped placing order. As a non limiting example a percent payout might be 50 to 1st place 30 to 2nd place and 20 to 3rd place. After the developer has input the parameters they are saved through the transactional server and into a database or other storage managing contest information.

Once contest parameters are established the developer may elect to make the contest public or private at . If developer elects to initiate the contest as a public contest at the contest is created where all users of that game and or the gaming platform will be able to access and participate in the contest when the contest starts. If the developer elects to initiate the contest as a private contest at the developer can then establish private access authentication parameters that may restrict which users can participate for example a user must have a password or code to participate or be located in a specific geographical region. Private access authentication parameters include but are not limited to passwords codes user location user skill or experience level access through a private link or invitation via a variety of different methods including social media networks. Once private access authentication parameters are established at the developer can then finalize the creation of the private contest at .

At the user may establish the parameters for the contest. In a non limiting example the user may establish parameters such as attempt fee amount a metric to guide or rank participants results contest type payout structure notifications notification settings and the start and end time. In another non limiting example the game types may be most kills most points and fastest times. In another non limiting example the payout structure may be set as one winner takes all top 5 payout top 10 payout or a percent of the jackpot paid to any capped placing order. As a non limiting example a percent payout might be 50 to 1st place 30 to 2nd place and 20 to 3rd place. After the user has input the parameters they are saved through the transactional server and into a database or other storage managing contest information.

Once contest parameters are established the user may elect to make the contest public or private at . If user elects to initiate the contest as a public contest at the contest is created where all users of that game and or of the contest platform will be able to access and participate in the contest when the contest starts. If the user elects to initiate the contest as a private contest at the user can then establish private access authentication parameters that may restrict which users can participate for example users entering the contest must have a password or code to participate or be located in a specific geographical region. Private access authentication parameters include but are not limited to passwords codes user location user skill or experience level access through a private link or invitation via a variety of different methods including social media networks. Once private access authentication parameters are established at the user can then finalize the creation of the private contest at .

Those skilled in the art will readily recognize in light of and in accordance with the teachings of the present invention that any of the foregoing steps and or system modules may be suitably replaced reordered removed and additional steps and or system modules may be inserted depending upon the needs of the particular application and that the systems of the foregoing embodiments may be implemented using any of a wide variety of suitable processes and system modules and is not limited to any particular computer hardware software middleware firmware microcode and the like. For any method steps described in the present application that can be carried out on a computing machine a typical computer system can when appropriately configured or designed serve as a computer system in which those aspects of the invention may be embodied.

It will be further apparent to those skilled in the art that at least a portion of the novel method steps and or system components of the present invention may be practiced and or located in location s possibly outside the jurisdiction of the United States of America USA whereby it will be accordingly readily recognized that at least a subset of the novel method steps and or system components in the foregoing embodiments must be practiced within the jurisdiction of the USA for the benefit of an entity therein or to achieve an object of the present invention. Thus some alternate embodiments of the present invention may be configured to comprise a smaller subset of the foregoing means for and or steps described that the applications designer will selectively decide depending upon the practical considerations of the particular implementation to carry out and or locate within the jurisdiction of the USA. For example any of the foregoing described method steps and or system components which may be performed remotely over a network e.g. without limitation a remotely located server may be performed and or located outside of the jurisdiction of the USA while the remaining method steps and or system components e.g. without limitation a locally located client of the forgoing embodiments are typically required to be located performed in the USA for practical considerations. In client server architectures a remotely located server typically generates and transmits required information to a US based client for use according to the teachings of the present invention. Depending upon the needs of the particular application it will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art in light of the teachings of the present invention which aspects of the present invention can or should be located locally and which can or should be located remotely. Thus for any claims construction of the following claim limitations that are construed under 35 USC 112 6 it is intended that the corresponding means for and or steps for carrying out the claimed function are the ones that are locally implemented within the jurisdiction of the USA while the remaining aspect s performed or located remotely outside the USA are not intended to be construed under 35 USC 112 6 . In some embodiments the methods and or system components which may be located and or performed remotely include without limitation web site hosting and cloud storage for databases.

It is noted that according to USA law 35 USC 112 1 all claims must be supported by sufficient disclosure in the present patent specification and any material known to those skilled in the art need not be explicitly disclosed. However 35 USC 112 6 requires that structures corresponding to functional limitations interpreted under 35 USC 112 6 must be explicitly disclosed in the patent specification. Moreover the USPTO s Examination policy of initially treating and searching prior art under the broadest interpretation of a mean for claim limitation implies that the broadest initial search on 112 6 functional limitation would have to be conducted to support a legally valid Examination on that USPTO policy for broadest interpretation of mean for claims. Accordingly the USPTO will have discovered a multiplicity of prior art documents including disclosure of specific structures and elements which are suitable to act as corresponding structures to satisfy all functional limitations in the below claims that are interpreted under 35 USC 112 6 when such corresponding structures are not explicitly disclosed in the foregoing patent specification. Therefore for any invention element s structure s corresponding to functional claim limitation s in the below claims interpreted under 35 USC 112 6 which is are not explicitly disclosed in the foregoing patent specification yet do exist in the patent and or non patent documents found during the course of USPTO searching Applicant s incorporate all such functionally corresponding structures and related enabling material herein by reference for the purpose of providing explicit structures that implement the functional means claimed. Applicant s request s that fact finders during any claims construction proceedings and or examination of patent allowability properly identify and incorporate only the portions of each of these documents discovered during the broadest interpretation search of 35 USC 112 6 limitation which exist in at least one of the patent and or non patent documents found during the course of normal USPTO searching and or supplied to the USPTO during prosecution. Applicant s also incorporate by reference the bibliographic citation information to identify all such documents comprising functionally corresponding structures and related enabling material as listed in any PTO Form 892 or likewise any information disclosure statements IDS entered into the present patent application by the USPTO or Applicant s or any 3parties. Applicant s also reserve its right to later amend the present application to explicitly include citations to such documents and or explicitly include the functionally corresponding structures which were incorporate by reference above.

All the features disclosed in this specification including any accompanying abstract and drawings may be replaced by alternative features serving the same equivalent or similar purpose unless expressly stated otherwise. Thus unless expressly stated otherwise each feature disclosed is one example only of a generic series of equivalent or similar features.

It is noted that according to USA law 35 USC 112 1 all claims must be supported by sufficient disclosure in the present patent specification and any material known to those skilled in the art need not be explicitly disclosed. However 35 USC 112 6 requires that structures corresponding to functional limitations interpreted under 35 USC 112 6 must be explicitly disclosed in the patent specification. Moreover the USPTO s Examination policy of initially treating and searching prior art under the broadest interpretation of a mean for claim limitation implies that the broadest initial search on 112 6 functional limitation would have to be conducted to support a legally valid Examination on that USPTO policy for broadest interpretation of mean for claims. Accordingly the USPTO will have discovered a multiplicity of prior art documents including disclosure of specific structures and elements which are suitable to act as corresponding structures to satisfy all functional limitations in the below claims that are interpreted under 35 USC 112 6 when such corresponding structures are not explicitly disclosed in the foregoing patent specification. Therefore for any invention element s structure s corresponding to functional claim limitation s in the below claims interpreted under 35 USC 112 6 which is are not explicitly disclosed in the foregoing patent specification yet do exist in the patent and or non patent documents found during the course of USPTO searching Applicant s incorporate all such functionally corresponding structures and related enabling material herein by reference for the purpose of providing explicit structures that implement the functional means claimed. Applicant s request s that fact finders during any claims construction proceedings and or examination of patent allowability properly identify and incorporate only the portions of each of these documents discovered during the broadest interpretation search of 35 USC 112 6 limitation which exist in at least one of the patent and or non patent documents found during the course of normal USPTO searching and or supplied to the USPTO during prosecution. Applicant s also incorporate by reference the bibliographic citation information to identify all such documents comprising functionally corresponding structures and related enabling material as listed in any PTO Form 892 or likewise any information disclosure statements IDS entered into the present patent application by the USPTO or Applicant s or any 3parties. Applicant s also reserve its right to later amend the present application to explicitly include citations to such documents and or explicitly include the functionally corresponding structures which were incorporate by reference above.

Thus for any invention element s structure s corresponding to functional claim limitation s in the below claims that are interpreted under 35 USC 112 6 which is are not explicitly disclosed in the foregoing patent specification Applicant s have explicitly prescribed which documents and material to include the otherwise missing disclosure and have prescribed exactly which portions of such patent and or non patent documents should be incorporated by such reference for the purpose of satisfying the disclosure requirements of 35 USC 112 6 . Applicant s note that all the identified documents above which are incorporated by reference to satisfy 35 USC 112 6 necessarily have a filing and or publication date prior to that of the instant application and thus are valid prior documents to incorporated by reference in the instant application.

Having fully described at least one embodiment of the present invention other equivalent or alternative methods of implementing a mobile gaming platform according to the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Various aspects of the invention have been described above by way of illustration and the specific embodiments disclosed are not intended to limit the invention to the particular forms disclosed. The particular implementation of the mobile gaming platform may vary depending upon the particular context or application. By way of example and not limitation the a mobile gaming platform described in the foregoing were principally directed to third party developer integration implementations however similar techniques may instead be applied to third party developer integrations for Microsoft X box and Sony PlayStation gaming which implementations of the present invention are contemplated as within the scope of the present invention. Furthermore the teachings of the present invention are not limited to any particular SDK and may include any suitable framework for integrating a contest with a game. The invention is thus to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the following claims. It is to be further understood that not all of the disclosed embodiments in the foregoing specification will necessarily satisfy or achieve each of the objects advantages or improvements described in the foregoing specification.

Claim elements and steps herein may have been numbered and or lettered solely as an aid in readability and understanding. Any such numbering and lettering in itself is not intended to and should not be taken to indicate the ordering of elements and or steps in the claims.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed.

The Abstract is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. Section 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to limit or interpret the scope or meaning of the claims. The following claims are hereby incorporated into the detailed description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

