---

title: Mobile client device, operation method, and recording medium
abstract: An information processing apparatus including a touch panel and a near field communication interface. The information processing apparatus detects that an input received at the touch panel corresponds to a predetermined input when the information processing apparatus is in a suspended state; and controls the information processing apparatus execute a predetermined function via the near field communication interface and awake from the suspended state upon detecting that the input corresponds to the predetermined input.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09600056&OS=09600056&RS=09600056
owner: Sony Mobile Communications, Inc.
number: 09600056
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20160324
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 024 328 filed Sep. 11 2013 which claims the benefit of priority from Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 702 939 filed Sep. 19 2012. The entire contents of both of the above noted applications are incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to a mobile client device operation method and recording medium applied in the case where for example a user performs an input operation on a touch panel to execute a specific function.

Recently there is increasing adoption of touch panels as an input device by which a user performs input operations on a mobile device such as a mobile phone client device an advanced mobile information terminal equipped with telephony functions commonly referred to as a smartphone or a tablet device. A touch panel is a device in which a display that displays images etc. and a touch sensor or other position input device are integrally constructed.

In a client device provided with a touch panel application software hereinafter abbreviated to applications in some cases operates due to the user performing given operational input on various icons displayed on a screen for example. Applications are associated with icons and operate according to the operational input. Known operational input methods include tap operations that tap the screen drag operations that move a contacting pointing object such as a finger or stylus from a given position to another position flick operations that move a pointing object across the screen in a sweeping motion and tap operations that tap the screen with a pointing object.

These various operations are determined on the basis of information on the coordinate position on the screen where the pointing object is in contact or proximity during a series of operations from when the finger contacts the screen until it is released. For example information such as the variation in coordinate position per unit time the translational velocity of the coordinate position and the on screen surface area where touch is detected are used as information for identifying operational input.

Additionally in order to reduce power consumption a mobile client device transitions to a suspended state i.e. a low power mode if no operational input from the user is performed for a fixed amount of time. In the suspended state the power consumption of the mobile client device is reduced by lowering the intensity of the backlight in the display or suspending various functions. However information such as the type of operational input performed prior to transitioning to the suspended state is saved to memory. For this reason the operational input type etc. can be retrieved from memory and processing can be resumed when awakening from the suspended state called waking up . In the following description the process of awakening from a suspended state is called resuming .

Also methods that detect an operation performed on a touch panel and initiate operation of an electronic device are becoming known. For example U.S. Pat. No. 8 046 721 describes a method of transitioning an electronic device to an unlocked user interface state in the case where contact with a touch sensitive display corresponds to a given gesture.

Meanwhile near field communication NFC exists as a short range wireless communication standard that enables bidirectional communication by bringing different electronic devices in proximity to each other within a given distance. NFC is used with communication processes like the following. For example an NFC equipped mobile client device is first brought close to a PC or other electronic device to conduct authentication and establish a communication link hereinafter such an operation is called an NFC touch . After that high speed wireless communication compatible with a standard such as Bluetooth registered trademark is conducted. Thus photos or videos shot with the mobile client device can be transferred to an electronic device.

Meanwhile multiple use cases are envisioned for wireless communication using NFC depending on the combination of electronic devices. For example there exist use cases configured for data transmitting and receiving between different electronic devices electronic money payments and entrance exit management using electronic tickets.

Although various such use cases are envisioned only one type of use cases can be selected by simply performing an NFC touch only. For this reason conventionally the user has selected a use case from icons on a popup user interface UI displayed on the screen of a mobile client device after performing an NFC touch. However use cases in which a use case is selected using a popup UI imposes many operations on the user.

Furthermore if the mobile client device is always in an awake state power consumption is increased even when the mobile client device is not in use and the mobile client device may be used in unintended ways by other persons in some cases. For this reason measures have been taken such that the backlight of the display is dimmed to reduce power consumption when the mobile client device is not in use and the mobile client device is not awakened from a suspended state unless a password known only to the user is input. For this reason when the user uses NFC it is necessary to enable NFC after first awakening the mobile client device from a suspended state to release the screen lock and performing an operation causing a home screen to be displayed.

In this way the sequence until communication processes using NFC are conducted is complex and burdensome and the user has not been able to rapidly select a desired use case.

For this reason the Inventors have recognized the need to cause a mobile client device in a suspended state to rapidly execute a specific function using wireless communication.

According to one exemplary embodiment the disclosure is directed to an information processing apparatus including a touch panel and a near field communication interface. The information processing apparatus detects that an input received at the touch panel corresponds to a predetermined input when the information processing apparatus is in a suspended state and controls the information processing apparatus execute a predetermined function via the near field communication interface and awake from the suspended state upon detecting that the input corresponds to the predetermined input.

In so doing short range communication is conducted by a machine to machine M2M communication processor on the basis of the pattern of an input operation and a specific function is executed.

According to the present disclosure it is configured such that an M2M communication processor in an awakened state conducts short range communication and a specific function desired by the user is executed according to the pattern of an input operation. For this reason a specific function can be rapidly executed.

Hereinafter an embodiment of the present disclosure will be described. The description will proceed in the following order. Note that like reference signs are given to shared parts and detailed description thereof will be reduced or omitted.

The mobile client device is provided with a touch panel a display on which the touch panel is overlaid and a home button that displays a home screen due to being pressed by the user. Assume for example that an operation pressing the home button is performed by the user with his or her finger when the mobile client device is in a suspended state see . When the components of the mobile client device enter an awakened state due to resuming a home screen is displayed on the display see . On the home screen various pictures and function icons are listed.

In the conventional mobile client device as described above once the home screen is displayed the user activates an application by selecting a function icon corresponding to the application he or she wants to activate. However the operation of selecting a function icon via the home screen at every resume involves more time and effort and the intended function cannot be rapidly utilized. Also resuming requires initialization processes etc. for each processing block corresponding to the intended function and thus is a factor that delays the activation of the application.

As a result of the above investigation the Inventors discovered the configuration and processing of a mobile client device according to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure. Herein a process of executing a specific function with a combination of gesture operations and short range wireless communication using NFC will be described.

Hereinafter an exemplary configuration and exemplary operation of a mobile client device according to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure will be described with reference to . In the mobile client device an operation method is realized by internal blocks to be discussed later working in conjunction with each other as a result of a computer executing a program.

The mobile client device includes a case a touch panel which is housed in the front portion of the case and upon which input operations are performed by a pointing object and operable keys which may be provided on the lower part of the front of the case .

The touch panel is used as an input device by which the user performs input operations. The touch panel may be realized with a capacitive sensor for example. Additionally the touch panel is integrally formed with a touch sensor see used as a position input device which accepts the input of positions indicated by a pointing object such as a finger or stylus and a display that displays images etc. The display may be constructed with an LCD panel or an organic electroluminescent EL panel for example.

The following techniques are used as sensing techniques by which the touch panel detects input operations performed by a pointing object. For example there exist resistive techniques which detect resistivity changes in a portion contacted by a pointing object electromagnetic induction techniques which detect the electromagnetic energy of a specialized pointing object that produces a magnetic field and capacitive techniques which detect changes in the capacitance values of a contacted portion.

Herein an example will be described in which a finger is used as the pointing object that performs input operations on the touch panel .

In the mobile client device given operations may be input by the user on various icons displayed on the screen of the display thereby causing the various applications associated with those icons to operate according to the input operation type for example. Input operation types include for example tap operations drag operations or flick operations as well as gesture operations to be described later.

The operable keys may be provided with a home button a power button and volume buttons etc. not illustrated . If the user presses the home button a home screen can be displayed on the display . Also if the power button is pressed the power of the mobile client device can be switched on or off. Also if the volume buttons are pressed the volume during telephony or music playback can be increased or decreased.

The mobile client device is provided with an antenna that transmits and receives radio waves to and from a wireless telephone base station a communication processor connected to the antenna and a controller . Also provided are an audio processor a speaker and a microphone .

The communication processor wirelessly communicates with a wireless telephone base station according to control by the controller . During audio telephony audio data included in data received by the communication processor is subjected to audio processing and after that the processed audio data is supplied to the audio processor which causes the speaker to emit audio. Then an audio data decoding process is conducted by the audio processor and an analog audio signal is obtained. The analog audio signal obtained by the audio processor is supplied to the speaker which is an example of a sound emitting unit and output as audio. An audio signal obtained as a result of audio pickup by the microphone is also supplied to the audio processor and the audio data is encoded by the audio processor into a given encoding format pulse width modulation PWM for example . Then the obtained audio data is supplied to the communication processor and emitted as a wireless radio wave via the antenna .

Processors such as the communication processor and the audio processor exchange control data with the controller via a control line CL while also transmitting data via a data line DL.

The controller may be constructed with a central processing unit CPU or graphics processing unit GPU and controls the respective units constituting the mobile client device . If the touch sensor detects the pattern of an input operation during a suspended state the controller resumes an M2M communication processor to be discussed later bringing it into an awakened state. Then if the M2M communication processor conducts short range communication the controller is made to execute a specific function via the M2M communication processor on the basis of the pattern of the input operation.

The specific function may include a first communication function and a second communication function for example. The first communication function is one that connects an electronic device to a network via a network communication processor on the basis of information identifying the electronic device and received from the electronic device by the M2M communication processor . In the following description a PC is presented as an example of an electronic device . The second communication function is one that transfers an image being displayed on the display to an electronic device and causes the transferred image to be displayed by the electronic device.

The mobile client device is also provided with a touch panel and operable keys . Included in the touch panel are a touch sensor and a touch sensor driver . The touch sensor is used as an input detector that detects the pattern of an input operation from the contact or non contact of a pointing object used to perform input operations on an operable surface by measuring changes in capacitance values detected by the touch sensor driver . The touch sensor is constructed with sensors which are of the mutual capacitive type of projected capacitance touch technology in which transmit electrodes TX and receive electrodes RX not illustrated are arrayed in a matrix in the X and Y directions for example.

In the touch sensor by grounding the receive electrodes and inputting a drive pulse into the transmit electrodes an electric field is produced between the transmit electrodes and the receive electrodes. If a pointing object which is a type of conducting object such as the user s finger or a stylus approaches the surface of the touch panel hereinafter called the operable surface the electric field between the transmit electrodes and the receive electrodes decreases since a portion of the electric field is absorbed by the conducting object. Accordingly the charge capacitance in the receive electrodes also decreases. Consequently the touch sensor is able to detect contact and non contact of a pointing object with respect to the operable surface by measuring decreases in charge due to decreases in the electric field between the transmit electrodes and the receive electrodes.

This touch sensor detects the position of a pointing object on the touch panel from the position on the operable surface where contact or proximity of the pointing object is detected. Additionally XY coordinate information corresponding to the position is also output. Types of user performed input operations include tap operations drag operations and flick operations as discussed earlier as well as pinch operations pinch spread in which the spacing between two fingers is made wider or narrower and operations that depend on the number of fingers contacting the operable surface. Furthermore the touch sensor detects the pattern of an input operation performed on the touch panel by the pointing object on the basis of the position on the screen coordinate information etc. where the pointing object is in contact or proximity during a series of operations from when the pointing object contacts the operable surface until it is released. At this point the touch sensor determines the type of pointing object finger etc. in contact with or in proximity to the operable surface and the number of pointing objects etc. on the basis of capacitance values detected by the touch sensor . The capacitance values may include information on the distribution over the operable surface and magnitudes of capacitance for example.

The touch sensor driver inputs drive pulses into each transmit electrode and detects the charge in the receive electrodes. Also if the touch sensor detects a gesture operation during a suspended state the touch sensor driver issues instructions for initiating a resume to the controller .

The controller controls a display processor and applies control causing the display to display given screens.

The display processor causes the display to display screens corresponding to applications executed by the controller . For example the display may be made to display pictures shot by a camera application. Also on the basis of input operations performed on the operable surface a web browser etc. may be scrolled up or down a screen may be moved on the basis of a flick operation or a selected area may be enlarged or reduced on the basis of a pinch operation in some cases. When displaying an image on the display the display processor saves several frames worth of picture data in a frame buffer . The frame buffer is memory that saves picture data by FIFO First In First Out . The display displays pictures on the basis of picture data for individual frames read out from the frame buffer .

The mobile client device is also provided with an imaging driver an imaging unit memory an M2M communication processor a network communication processor and a sensor unit .

The imaging unit is provided with an imaging element consisting of an image sensor such as a charge coupled device CCD or complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS for example. The imaging unit is also provided with optics consisting of a lens shutter etc. not illustrated for imaging subjects. Additionally the imaging unit generates an image signal by photoelectrically converting subject light focused onto its photosensor surface via a lens not illustrated. Imaging operation of the imaging unit is controlled by the imaging driver .

The display processor frame buffer display memory M2M communication processor short range communication driver short range communication processor and network communication processor are used as controlled units. Operation of the controlled units is controlled via middleware see discussed later that operates according to instructions from application software in the case where an input operation is performed on the touch panel while the application software is in an activated state. Additionally operation of the controlled units is controlled from middleware if in a suspended state.

If the pattern of an input operation is detected during a suspended state in which application software and middleware are not activated the touch sensor driver initiates resuming by the controller and activates the controller to bring it from a suspended state to an awakened state. Then the controller initiates resuming of a quick launcher which is middleware and also initiates resuming of the M2M communication processor see discussed later . Then the quick launcher causes the controlled unit determined to be the target of operation to execute given behavior corresponding to the pattern of the input operation.

The memory is constructed with read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM and stores various application software as well as data required when executing such application software. On the basis of the pattern of an input operation detected by the touch sensor the controller is able to select the execution of either a process that transmits data read out from the memory to an electronic device or a process in which the M2M communication processor receives data from an electronic device and the data is saved to the memory .

The M2M communication processor conducts wireless short range communication with nearby electronic devices via a connected antenna on the basis of a protocol conforming to a given communication standard.

The M2M communication processor is provided with a short range communication driver and a short range communication processor . The short range communication driver controls the behavior of the short range communication processor . The short range communication processor transmits and receives data processed in accordance with NFC which is an example of a short range communication standard via the antenna to and from an electronic device that has been brought close to the mobile client device .

The network communication processor connects to a network such as the Internet or an intranet via a connected antenna on the basis of various protocols conforming to given communication standards. The network communication processor is able to conduct data communication using Wi Fi registered trademark for example.

The sensor unit is configured to include an acceleration sensor and a geomagnetic sensor etc. and outputs given sensor values. Additionally the controller determines the specific function type on the basis of the combination of the pattern of an input operation detected by the touch sensor and the sensor values. For example from sensor values output by an acceleration sensor the controller is able to compute operations in which the mobile client device is lifted up or waved and also compute the orientation in which the mobile client device is being used.

In the mobile client device a human machine interface HMI layer a middleware layer and a hardware layer are set and the various modules in each layer operate in association with each other. The module groups included in the HMI layer and the middleware layer are called software in contradistinction to hardware.

In the following description the applications and middleware included in the respective layers and the software that manages the behavior of the respective units provided in the mobile client device under control by the controller are called the system . The system may be an operating system OS for example. The system conducts processes such as interrupt control and timeout management and outputs various commands while also applying control that manages the behavior of the mobile client device as a whole and causes resume and suspend processes to operate in respective units.

Although not fully illustrated the respective units provided in the mobile client device described in are included in the hardware layer. Data is passed between the HMI layer and the middleware layer via a public application programming interface API that mediates the processes of various application software. Data is passed between the middleware layer and the hardware layer via a driver API that mediates processes with respect to respective units provided in the mobile client device .

The HMI layer includes various modules such as a home screen application a wireless communication application and a user selection UI application . The home screen application controls the displaying of a home screen on the display . The wireless communication application applies control causing the communication processor to conduct wireless communication on the basis of a tethering function or a wireless display function to be discussed later. The user selection UI application controls the popup display on the display of a user selection UI that includes icons prompting the user to select either the tethering function or the wireless display function as the function able to use NFC. Then control may be applied causing the M2M communication processor to conduct wireless communication on the basis of the selected function.

The middleware layer includes a quick launcher and a multimedia middleware as examples of middleware. The quick launcher initiates resuming of the system controller of the mobile client device in a suspended state for example. Note that the quick launcher is able to induce launching at high speed by applying sequence control to respective units in the hardware layer during a resume. Functions by which the quick launcher applies sequence control may include a function that controls the series of operations required to execute display functions and a function that loads picture data whose playback was stopped into the frame buffer to increase the speed of reading operations for example.

In addition the quick launcher is also used as communication middleware that issues instructions input from the wireless communication application to the short range communication driver while also outputting communication results received from the short range communication driver to the display .

Note that conventionally a process to display a home screen on the display is conducted according to control by the home screen application during the process of awakening a suspended system by resuming. The home screen that has been activated due to resuming is in an unlocked state enabling operational input by the user.

However in the mobile client device according to this exemplary embodiment when the system is awakened from a suspended state the controller in the hardware layer controls the behavior of respective units in the hardware layer directly bypassing the HMI layer. For example in the mobile client device the controller directly controls the short range communication driver to cause the short range communication processor to conduct wireless communication by NFC bypassing operation by the wireless communication application .

In addition the quick launcher controls the behavior of the display processor by directly controlling the multimedia middleware and causes picture data to be buffered in the frame buffer . Picture data read out from the frame buffer is then output to the display and a picture is displayed. Also the multimedia middleware causes audio or other data to be subjected to codec or other processing by the audio processor the processed audio data is output to the speaker and audio is emitted.

In this way in the mobile client device there are realized shortcut functions for rapidly executing various functions while bypassing control from the HMI layer via the public API.

Exemplary scans by the touch sensor when detecting that operational input has been performed by a pointing object contacting the operable surface will now be described with reference to .

The ordinary scan illustrated in is conducted in the case where the mobile client device is not in a suspended state. In an ordinary scan the surface of the touch sensor is scanned at a scan rate of 60 Hz for example. Since results are returned rapidly in response to operational input from the user responsiveness is high. However since an ordinary scan has a large scan count power consumption by the touch panel also increases.

The intermittent scan illustrated in is conducted in the case where the mobile client device is in a suspended state. At this point the touch sensor used as the input detector lowers the execution frequency of the process for detecting input operations performed on the touch panel if an input operation performed on the touch panel is not detected for a given period.

In an intermittent scan the surface of the touch sensor is scanned at a scan rate of 10 Hz for example and a sleep period during which various functions of the mobile client device are suspended is provided between every single scan. For this reason power consumption is lower with an intermittent scan compared to an ordinary scan. Also since there is a low frequency of operational input from the user being conducted during a suspended state when a tap or drag operation is conducted it is sufficient to detect these operations. Operational input from the user is still detected with an intermittent scan and if it is configured such that ordinary scans are conducted after resuming inconveniences in usability do not occur.

As illustrated in a finger contacts a position at the coordinates X Y 3 14 on the touch panel . At this point since the capacitance values 90 to 100 in the vicinity of the position at coordinates 3 14 are higher than the capacitance values 7 to 10 detected at other positions the touch sensor detects that operational input has been performed on the touch panel . The 3D graph of capacitance values illustrated in demonstrates that the capacitance values of the position at coordinates 3 14 are projecting out. It may be configured such that a given threshold value 50 for example is provided for the capacitance values with a touch operation being detected in the case where the capacitance values exceed the threshold value.

As illustrated in in the case where the mobile client device is inside the user s pocket etc. the user s body is contacting the entire surface of the touch panel via his or her clothing etc. and the touch sensor outputs capacitance values 40 to 80 across the entire surface. At this point from the high capacitance values being detected across the entire surface of the touch panel the touch sensor driver determines that although an object is contacting the touch panel for some reason intentional operational input is not being performed by the user. The 3D graph of capacitance values illustrated in demonstrates that high capacitance values are being detected across the entire surface of the touch sensor

When detecting capacitance values across the entire surface of the touch sensor in this way the touch sensor driver does not detect them as touch operations so as to not cause the mobile client device to operate incorrectly while in a suspended state. Additionally incorrect operation is prevented by applying control such that given processing is conducted in the case where the touch sensor detects capacitance values for a gesture operation with a specific pattern to be discussed later.

Next examples of gesture operations according to this exemplary embodiment will be described with reference to .

Note that although the mobile client device is in a suspended state it is possible to continue the process of detecting touch by intermittently scanning the surface of the touch panel as illustrated in .

The first gesture operation illustrated in being an example of an input operation is an operation that brings the mobile client device close to the PC while touching the touch panel with a single fingertip when the mobile client device is in a suspended state.

If the touch sensor detects that a single finger has touched the operable surface the mobile client device initiates resuming from the suspended state. Then if the mobile client device is brought close to the PC to perform an NFC touch while the single finger is touching the operable surface the mobile client device and the PC initiate short range wireless communication by NFC with each other. During the NFC touch the mobile client device is brought to within approximately 1 cm of the PC .

If an NFC touch is performed the mobile client device receives information for conducting short range communication from the PC in the form of the MAC address of the PC an ID and a password for example. After that the mobile client device enables a tethering function in which the mobile client device itself is used as a wireless router for connecting to the Internet and causes the PC to connect to the Internet by connecting the network communication processor to an access point not illustrated in the drawings. For this reason the user is able to connect the PC to the Internet via the mobile client device with a simple operation.

The second gesture operation illustrated in being an example of an input operation is an operation that brings the mobile client device close to the PC while touching the touch panel with two fingertips when the mobile client device is in a suspended state.

If the touch sensor detects that two fingers have touched the operable surface the mobile client device initiates resuming from the suspended state. Then if the mobile client device is brought close to the PC to perform an NFC touch while the two fingers are touching the operable surface the mobile client device and the PC initiate short range wireless communication by NFC with each other.

If an NFC touch is performed the mobile client device activates the home screen while also activating a wireless display function that causes images being displayed on the mobile client device such as the home screen and photographs selected by the user to be displayed on the display of the PC .

In this way although the mobile client device is in a suspended state different functions can be realized by performing a first or a second gesture operation before performing an NFC touch.

Next an exemplary comparison of processing sequences for the case of executing a wireless display function by performing an NFC touch with conventional operations and the case of executing a wireless display function by performing an NFC touch with an operation according to this exemplary embodiment will be described with reference to . Note that it is possible for the mobile client device according to this exemplary embodiment to both execute functions by conventional operations as well as execute functions by operations according to this exemplary embodiment.

With conventional operations resuming is initiated after the user presses the power key during a suspended state and after the system of the mobile client device enters an awakened state a user selection UI is displayed and an icon is selected from the user selection UI. Via such operations it is possible to activate the wireless communication application .

In the following description putting the mobile client device in a suspended state and transitioning to an awakened state is expressed by the controller given as the system illustrated in the sequence diagram.

First the system is taken to be in a suspended state step S . If a power key included among the operable keys is pressed while the system is in a suspended state resuming of the system is activated step S .

If resuming is activated the controller outputs a resume command to the touch sensor driver step S and the touch sensor driver resumes the touch sensor step S . Then there is a standby until the touch sensor detects an input operation performed on the operable surface.

Next an input screen prompting for input of authentication information such as a password is displayed on the display which is not illustrated in . Although the system has transitioned to initiating resuming from a suspended state it remains locked and does not accept operations from the user unless authentication information is input on the input screen.

In order to release the lock the user touches the touch panel upon which the input screen is displayed and performs a screen unlocking operation that inputs authentication information. The touch panel sends the input authentication information to the controller and the controller conducts user authentication on the basis of the received authentication information. Then if it is determined that a user with legitimate rights has input authentication information the controller conducts a screen unlocking process step S and allows input operations on the operable surface.

If the screen unlocking process is conducted the controller outputs a resume command to the short range communication driver step S . The short range communication driver resumes the short range communication processor step S . Once the resuming of respective units completes the system enters an awakened state that returns a response to the operational input from the user step S . The short range communication processor then stands by until an NFC touch is detected.

If an NFC touch is performed by the user the short range communication processor notifies the short range communication driver that it has detected the performing of an NFC touch step S . The short range communication driver then notifies the controller that an NFC touch has been performed step S .

Upon receiving a notification indicating that an NFC touch has been performed the controller outputs a command to the user selection UI application causing the display to display a user selection UI step S . The user selection UI is displayed in the form of multiple communication icons on the display . Included among the communication icons are an icon for executing a tethering function and an icon for executing a wireless display function.

Upon detecting that an input operation has been performed by touching the position where a communication icon is being displayed step S the touch sensor notifies the touch sensor driver of the coordinates where the touch was detected step S . Additionally the touch sensor driver notifies the controller of the coordinates step S .

Upon ascertaining that an input operation has been performed on the communication icon corresponding to the coordinates indicated by the notification from the touch sensor driver the controller outputs a wireless communication application activation command to the wireless communication application step S . Upon receiving the activation command the wireless communication application executes the wireless display function and the mobile client device causes images being displayed on the display to be displayed on the display screen of another electronic device.

In this way according to a conventional process the user first presses a power button and performs a screen unlocking operation in order to cancel the suspended state. After that an NFC touch is performed and after selecting a communication icon on a user selection UI displayed due to resuming the wireless display function is executed. For this reason there are many steps from the suspended state until initiating wireless display and the operations are burdensome.

First the system is taken to be in a suspended state step S . If in a suspended state the mobile client device waits for the detection of a touch operation in a low power mode where power consumption is kept low by intermittently scanning the touch sensor step S .

If operational input is performed on the touch panel with the second gesture operation two point touch that instructs the initiation of the wireless display function the touch sensor detects that operational input has been performed step S . At this point the touch sensor outputs a special interrupt command for waking the system to the touch sensor driver step S .

Note that when the controller is in a suspended state processing is not conducted even if ordinary interrupt commands are received. However the special interrupt command is one that instructs the controller to initiate resuming. For this reason upon receiving the special interrupt command the controller conducts processing to initiate resuming and transition from a suspended state to an awakened state.

The touch sensor driver outputs the special interrupt command in the form of a command to the controller that activates resuming of the system step S . Thus the controller initiates resuming and in addition outputs a command that initiates resuming of the short range communication driver step S . The short range communication driver causes the short range communication processor to conduct power on processing and initialization processing and outputs a command to initiate resume processing step S . Thus the short range communication processor is powered on and initialization processing is conducted. The short range communication processor then initiates resuming. Additionally the controller outputs a command that initiates resuming of the quick launcher step S .

The controller ends resuming of the system and enters an awakened state step S . If the system enters an awakened state and an NFC touch is performed the short range communication processor notifies the short range communication driver that it has detected an NFC touch step S . The short range communication driver then notifies the quick launcher that an NFC touch has been performed step S .

After that the quick launcher acquires a specific condition from the controller step S . The specific condition is for example a condition for selecting which function the quick launcher causes the wireless communication application to execute in the case where a gesture operation detected by the touch sensor is performed with one or two fingers. Herein since a two point touch is being detected the quick launcher outputs a command activating the wireless display function to the wireless communication application step S .

The wireless communication application executes the wireless display function with respect to the other electronic device that was NFC touched.

Note that to execute the tethering function illustrated in it may be configured such that the touch sensor detects a one point touch in step S and the quick launcher instructs the wireless communication application to execute the tethering function.

According to the mobile client device in accordance with an exemplary embodiment described above a desired wireless function is rapidly executed even if in a suspended state if an NFC touch is performed after the user performs operational input on the touch panel with a specific gesture operation. For this reason it is not necessary to perform an operation selecting the wireless communication application after causing a home screen enabling NFC to be displayed as in the past and the input operations that the user must perform can be simplified.

Additionally respective modules in the hardware layer and middleware layer output commands directly to respective units included in the hardware layer and issue instructions for initiating a tethering function or a wireless display function while bypassing applications in the HMI layer see . For this reason various functions assigned to gesture operations can be executed without waiting for the time consuming activation processes for applications in the HMI layer and operability is improved for the user.

For example if a first gesture operation is performed on the touch panel of a mobile client device in a suspended state it is possible to rapidly activate the short range communication driver and the short range communication processor and execute a tethering function without operating the operable keys . For this reason the mobile client device can be used to rapidly connect a PC etc. to a network without performing the burdensome operations of activating the mobile client device and searching for the tethering function.

Also if a second gesture operation is performed on the touch panel it is possible to rapidly activate the short range communication driver and the short range communication processor and execute a wireless display function. Likewise in this case since the wireless communication application is activated after detecting an NFC touch it becomes possible to rapidly conduct wireless display on the other device that was NFC touched.

Also even if a first or second gesture operation is performed and the system changes from a suspended state to an awakened state the system is made to return to the suspended state if an NFC touch is not detected within a given amount of time. Thus the mobile client device is able to save power without automatically activating the wireless communication application until an NFC touch is performed.

In addition the consumption of power can be reduced by using an intermittent scan when the mobile client device is in a suspended state. Also in the case where the region where the touch sensor detects operational input is all or part of the touch sensor it can be respectively determined if the user is intentionally performing operational input by computing the distribution of capacitance values. For this reason it is possible to prevent mistaken determinations that operational input has been performed with respect to unintentional operational input such as the case where the user s body indirectly contacts the touch panel of a mobile client device that is inside the user s pocket.

Note that although examples applied to home screen activation imaging and music playback have been described for the mobile client device according to an exemplary embodiment discussed above any application besides the above is acceptable insofar as it is an application desirable for immediate activation and use. For example a map application that indicates the current location etc. or an application that logs into a social networking service SNS or accesses a blog or news site is also acceptable.

Additionally although the first and second gesture operations discussed above are ones that switch between one point and two point touch other gesture operations may also be assigned.

Also although in step S of the detection of a two point touch by the touch sensor is taken to be the operation that initiates a process the detection of an NFC touch by the short range communication processor may also be taken to be the operation that initiates a process. In this case the short range communication processor may be activated in advance.

For example if connection information for connecting to a website URL Uniform Resource Locator being displayed on the PC is received from the PC by the M2M communication processor the controller may cause the display to display the website on the basis of the connection information. In this case the same website can be displayed on both the PC and the mobile client device making data synchronization etc. easier to conduct.

Different gesture operations may also be assigned when selecting a payment service using NFC. For example it may be configured such that Suica registered trademark is selected for payment in the case of contacting the touch panel with one finger and Edy registered trademark in the case of contacting with two fingers.

Also by combining sensor values output by the sensor unit rather than just various gesture operations operationally input on the touch panel it is possible for the mobile client device to rapidly realize functions used by the user. At this point in the case where the touch sensor detects that an input operation has been performed on the touch panel during a suspended state the controller selects a controlled unit on the basis of sensor values and causes the selected controlled unit to execute given operations. For example if the sensor unit is provided with a gyro sensor it may be configured such that the orientation in which the mobile client device is placed is determined on the basis of sensor values from the gyro sensor. Similarly it may also be configured such that the orientation of the mobile client device can be determined using a geomagnetic sensor.

In this way the type of operational input performed on the mobile client device can be determined on the basis of sensor values acceleration values from an acceleration sensor included in the sensor unit in addition to a gesture operation performed on the touch panel . Furthermore by combining gesture operations and sensor values it also becomes possible to determine multiple use cases. For example if a determination condition regarding whether the mobile client device is in portrait or landscape is added in addition to a determination condition for whether a gesture operation performed on the touch panel is one point or two point it becomes possible to distinguish four use cases.

However the types of gesture operations are not limited to those of the exemplary embodiment discussed above and for example pinch operations and tap operations may also be combined. Also communication functions may be executed by performing an NFC touch while tracing a circular pattern on the touch panel or pressing one of the operable keys for example a volume button not illustrated for example rather than just performing an NFC touch while contacting the operable surface with one finger or two fingers. In this way it is possible to modify the combinations of appropriate gesture operations and functions etc. according to the specifications of the mobile client device . Additionally although operation would become more complex gesture operations with three or more stages may also be combined.

Additionally although an example of using NFC as the communication standard for conducting short range wireless communication with the mobile client device has been described other communication standards may also be used. For example infrared communication or Bluetooth registered trademark may also be used. Also communication is not limited to being wireless and wired communication may also be conducted.

In addition the present disclosure may be applied not only to a mobile client device having telephony functions but also to a mobile information client that lacks telephony functions such as an electronic dictionary a personal digital assistant PDA or a music player.

Additionally although the range of the short range wireless communication was taken to be such that the mobile client device is brought within approximately 1 cm of the PC a range in which short range wireless communication can still be conducted when brought within approximately 1 cm to several meters is also acceptable.

Additionally a series of processes according to the foregoing exemplary embodiment may also be executed in software in some cases. In such cases a program constituting such software may be executed by a computer built into special purpose hardware or alternatively by a computer onto which programs for executing various functions are installed. For example a program constituting the desired software may be installed and executed on a general purpose personal computer.

Also a recording medium storing program code of software that realizes the functions of the foregoing exemplary embodiment may also be supplied to a system or apparatus. It is furthermore obvious that the functions are realized by a computer or CPU or other control apparatus in such a system or apparatus reading out and executing the program code stored in the recording medium.

The recording medium used to supply program code in this case may be a flexible disk hard disk optical disc magneto optical disc CD ROM CD R magnetic tape non volatile memory card or ROM for example.

Also the functions of the foregoing exemplary embodiment are realized by executing program code read out by a computer. In addition some or all of the actual operations are conducted on the basis of instructions from such program code by an OS etc. running on the computer. This also includes cases where the functions of the foregoing exemplary embodiment are realized by such operations. In addition processes according to the exemplary embodiment may also be realized in hardware rather than being executed in software as described above.

Furthermore the present disclosure is not limited to the foregoing exemplary embodiment and obviously various other exemplary applications and modifications may be obtained insofar as they do not depart from the principal matter of the present disclosure stated in the claims. For this reason it is to be understood as obvious by persons skilled in the art that various modifications combinations and other embodiments may occur depending on design or other factors insofar as they are within the scope of the claims or their equivalents.

the circuitry is configured to determine the predetermined function to be executed based on the detected input received at the touch panel and an output of the sensor unit.

store a plurality of predetermined inputs that each correspond to one of a plurality of different functions to be executed via the near field communication interface.

detect that the input received at the touch panel corresponds to one of the plurality of predetermined inputs and

control the information processing apparatus to execute as the predetermined function the one of the plurality of predetermined functions corresponding to the detected input via the near field communication interface.

 6 The information processing apparatus of 5 wherein a first of the plurality of predetermined inputs corresponds to a single touch operation by an operation member on the touch panel and a second of the plurality of predetermined inputs corresponds to a simultaneous touch of two operation members on the touch panel.

the circuitry is configured to control as the predetermined function the near field communication interface to transmit data stored in the memory to another information processing apparatus upon detecting that the input corresponds to the predetermined input.

control as the predetermined function the near field communication interface to receive data from another information processing apparatus upon detecting that the input corresponds to the predetermined input.

the circuitry is configured to control as the predetermined function the near field communication interface to receive connection data corresponding to a website from another information processing apparatus control the wireless interface to access the website based on the receive connection data and control the near field communication interface to forward data received from the website via the wireless interface to the another information processing apparatus via the near field communication interface.

transmit a first activation command to the near field communication interface instructing the near field communication interface to be activated upon detecting that the input corresponds to the predetermined input.

transmit a second activation command to a middleware layer instructing the middleware layer to be activated after transmitting the first activation command to the near field communication interface.

control execution of the predetermined function via the near field communication interface based on the second activation command.

the suspended state of the information processing apparatus corresponds to a state in which application software and middleware of the information processing apparatus are not activated.

operation of the near field communication interface is controlled via the application software and the middleware upon detecting that the input corresponds to the predetermined input while the information processing apparatus is in an activated state and operation of the near field communication interface is controlled via only by activating the middleware upon detecting that the input corresponds to the predetermined input while the information processing apparatus is in the suspended state.

scan for an input at a first frequency when the information processing apparatus is in an activated state and scan for an input at a second frequency when the information processing apparatus is in the suspended state wherein the first frequency is higher than the second frequency.

 16 An information processing method performed by an information processing apparatus including a touch panel and a near field communication interface the method including 

detecting that an input received at the touch panel corresponds to a predetermined input when the information processing apparatus is in a suspended state and

controlling execution of a predetermined function via the near field communication interface and controlling the information processing apparatus to awake from the suspended state upon detecting that the input corresponds to the predetermined input.

 17 A non transitory computer readable medium including computer program instructions which when executed by an information processing apparatus including a touch panel and a near field communication interface cause the information processing apparatus to 

detect that an input received at the touch panel corresponds to a predetermined input when the information processing apparatus is in a suspended state and

control execution of a predetermined function via the near field communication interface and control the information processing apparatus to awake from the suspended state upon detecting that the input corresponds to the predetermined input.

