---

title: Identifying corresponding positions in different representations of a textual work
abstract: Described herein are techniques for determining corresponding positions between different representations of a textual work. In some of the techniques, portions of one or more representations may be processed. A determination of a corresponding position may be made in response to a request received from a user, such as a reader that desires to switch between representations. The request may indicate a position in one representation and the representation to which the user would like to switch. In response to receiving the request, one or more portions of one or more representations of a textual work may be processed. In some techniques, a corresponding position between different representations may be determined without processing the entirety of one or more representations of the textual work. For example, a corresponding position may be determined without processing an entire audio representation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09576580&OS=09576580&RS=09576580
owner: Nuance Communications, Inc.
number: 09576580
owner_city: Burlington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160502
---
The present application is a continuation of and claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 799 674 entitled IDENTIFYING CORRESPONDING POSITIONS IN DIFFERENT REPRESENTATIONS OF A TEXTUAL WORK filed Mar. 13 2013 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Textual works e.g. novels may be available in multiple different representations including hardcopy representations e.g. books electronic representations e.g. electronic books or eBooks and audio representations e.g. audiobooks . Each of the representations may include the words of the textual work in a different form. A hardcopy book for example may include the words of a novel printed in ink on a paper page an audiobook may include recorded audio of a person speaking the words of the novel or synthesized audio produced by a text to speech engine based on the words of the novel and an electronic book may include the words of the novel encoded in one or more computer data structures that may be stored on one or more storage media such as computer memory or a hard disk drive.

In one embodiment there is provided a method for use in identifying corresponding positions in an audio representation of a textual work and an electronic representation of the textual work. The method comprises performing automatic speech recognition ASR on a first audio segment appearing in the audio representation at a first audio position to generate a first textual representation of the first audio segment and identifying a first text position corresponding to the first audio position by searching the electronic representation of the textual work for text matching the first textual representation.

In another embodiment there is provided at least one computer readable storage medium having encoded thereon computer executable instructions that when executed by a computer cause the computer to carry out a method for use in identifying corresponding positions in an audio representation of a textual work and an electronic representation of the textual work. The method comprises performing automatic speech recognition ASR on a first audio segment appearing in the audio representation at a first audio position to generate a first textual representation of the first audio segment and identifying a first text position corresponding to the first audio position by searching the electronic representation of the textual work for text matching the first textual representation.

In a further embodiment there is provided an apparatus comprising at least one processor and at least one computer readable storage medium. The at least one computer readable storage medium has encoded thereon computer executable instructions that when executed by a computer cause the computer to carry out a method for use in identifying corresponding positions in an audio representation of a textual work and an electronic representation of the textual work. The method comprises performing automatic speech recognition ASR on a first audio segment appearing in the audio representation at a first audio position to generate a first textual representation of the first audio segment and identifying a first text position corresponding to the first audio position by searching the electronic representation of the textual work for text matching the first textual representation.

When a textual work e.g. a novel is available in multiple different representations some readers may switch between representations when reading the textual work. Such readers may for example read a textual work in a hardcopy representation at home listen to the textual work in an audio representation while commuting or exercising and or read the textual work in an electronic representation when travelling.

The inventor has recognized and appreciated that switching between representations is currently inconvenient for these readers. To switch representations the reader must recall a position he she most recently read or listened to in one representation and find that position in the other representation. This may include flipping through pages of a hardcopy book scrolling through an electronic book or fast forwarding and rewinding an audiobook to find the right position. The reader may need to scan back and forth through the desired representation multiple times to find the portion of the textual work e.g. particular words or sentences for which the reader is searching which may frustrate the reader. The inventor has recognized and appreciated that this challenge in finding corresponding positions between representations may discourage readers from switching representations when reading a textual work despite that one representation may not be convenient for all times at which the reader wants to read or listen to the work.

One technique that has been proposed for assisting readers with switching between an audiobook and an eBook uses a map that identifies a correspondence between all positions in the audiobook and all positions in the eBook. In this conventional technique the map is created in advance before a reader requests that a corresponding position be identified by performing an alignment process on the audiobook and eBook. An alignment process includes examining words that are included in the eBook and finding the most likely position of those words in the audiobook. Once the most likely position of a word is identified the position of that word in the eBook is identified as corresponding to the position in the audiobook and stored in the map. That process is repeated for all words in the eBook such that the map includes entries for all words in the eBook. Subsequently when a reader desires to switch between an audiobook and an eBook the map is queried based on the reader s current position in one representation and a corresponding position in the other representation is retrieved from the map.

The inventor has recognized and appreciated that this conventional alignment and map creation technique may use a relatively large amount of resources and requires that a map be pre generated. The alignment process may be processor intensive and the maps may use a relatively large amount of storage particularly for lengthy books. The inventor has also recognized and appreciated that as a result of the resources used this conventional technique may be disadvantageous for wide use in identifying corresponding positions between audio representations of textual works and electronic representations of those textual works. The alignment and map creation technique was proposed for creating maps for new books as the new books are released in eBook and audiobook formats and may be useful for popular new books that are released each year in these representations where the expenditure of resources may be justified by the volume of books. However the inventor has recognized and appreciated that there is a large number of textual works that are available or that may be made available in both audio and electronic representations and for which no mapping exists. For readers to switch between representations of textual works by taking advantage of this conventional technique the alignment and map creation would need to be carried out in advance for all such textual works such that maps for the textual works are available for querying by readers. Performing the alignment and map creation in advance for these textual works would require a great deal of resources and may not be practical in all cases including for textual works that are produced in relatively small volumes.

The inventor has recognized and appreciated that readers could be assisted in switching from one representation of a textual work to another via techniques that may not require creating a mapping between the representations for the entirety of the textual work in advance. The inventor has further recognized and appreciated that automatic speech recognition ASR techniques and or optical character recognition OCR techniques can be used to process portions of different representations of a textual work to identify corresponding positions in the different representations.

For example if a reader desires to switch between an audio representation of a textual work and an electronic representation of the textual work ASR could be performed on a segment of audio appearing in the audio representation to identify one or more words and or phrases that appear in the audio segment. Once the words and or phrases are identified the electronic representation can be searched to identify a position at which text matching the words phrases appears in the electronic representation.

In this example if the reader is switching from the audio representation to the electronic representation the audio segment that is processed using ASR may be an audio segment appearing at a current position of playback of the audio representation and a position in the electronic representation at which text matching the words generated through the ASR appears may be the position that corresponds to the current playback position in the audiobook. If the reader is switching from the electronic representation to the audio representation the audio segment that is processed using ASR may be an audio segment appearing at a position that is estimated to correspond to a position of a cursor in the electronic representation. Once words appearing in the audio segment are converted to text using ASR the electronic representation may be searched to identify positions of text in the electronic representation that matches the words. If the position at which the words appear does not match the cursor position then based on a difference between the position at which the words appear in the electronic representation and the position of the cursor in the electronic representation the estimate of the corresponding position may be refined and another segment of the audio processed using ASR.

Using these processes portions of an audio representation of a textual work and or an electronic representation of the textual work may be analyzed to identify corresponding positions in the representations. Using these techniques it is not necessary to process an entirety of an audio representation to determine a corresponding position between the audio representation and the electronic representation.

Similarly if a reader desires to switch between a hardcopy representation of a textual work and a digital representation of the textual work which may be an electronic representation or an audio representation OCR and or ASR may be used such that one or more portions of representations of the textual work are processed. For example the reader may obtain an image e.g. by taking a photo with a mobile phone of a portion of the hardcopy representation that includes the reader s current position in the hardcopy representation and this image may be processed using OCR techniques to identify textual content e.g. one or more characters words or phrases appearing in the image. Once the textual content is identified a position at which that textual content appears in a digital representation of the textual work can be determined. To determine the position in the digital representation an electronic representation of the textual work could be searched based on the textual content to identify a position at which the text matching the textual content appears. If the reader desires to switch to the electronic representation then the position at which the text matching the textual content determined using OCR may be the position in the electronic representation corresponding to the reader s position in the hardcopy book. If the reader desires to switch to an audio representation then a process such as the one discussed above may be used. For example the corresponding position in the audio representation may be estimated and ASR may be performed on a segment that appears at the estimated position. If an electronic representation of the textual work is available it may be searched for words matching the words generated using the ASR an estimate of the corresponding position may be refined such as through refining the estimate based on differences in position as discussed above.

Accordingly some embodiments below relate to described techniques for determining corresponding positions between different representations of a textual work. In some of the techniques described herein portions of one or more representations may be processed such as using ASR and or OCR processes as part of determining the corresponding positions. A determination of a corresponding position may be made in response to a request received from a user who may be a reader that desires to switch between representations. The request may indicate a position in one representation and the representation to which the user would like to switch. In response to receiving the request one or more portions of one or more representations of a textual work may be processed such as using ASR OCR or other processes. In some of the techniques described herein a corresponding position between different representations may be determined without processing the entirety of one or more representations of the textual work. For example a corresponding position may be determined without processing the entire audio representation to identify the words appearing throughout the audio representation and without generating in advance a mapping identifying corresponding positions between an entirety of the audio representation and another representation of the textual work.

Various examples of techniques for determining corresponding positions between representations of a textual work are described below. It should be appreciated however the techniques described herein are not limited to the specific examples below or to determining corresponding positions in any particular manner.

Embodiments may be used to determine corresponding positions between any suitable representations of any textual work. Embodiments are not limited to operating with any particular type s of textual works. A textual work may be any content unit that includes text including a novel short story essay e.g. from a newspaper magazine etc. article magazine journal script poem blog entry podcast transcription textbook or other instructional materials a collection of one or more of the preceding examples or any other suitable collection of text. Different representations of the textual work may include textual representations in which the text is formatted in different ways.

A textual work may be available in an audio representation. An audio representation may include the text of the textual work in an audio format. The audio format may be a recording of one or more humans speaking the text of the textual work synthesized speech corresponding to the text or any other suitable audio representation of text. The audio of an audio representation may be encoded using any suitable encoding scheme as techniques described herein are not limited in this respect. An audio representation may be stored on one or more storage media for playback by an audio reproduction device such as a device capable of playing audio. The storage media may be a memory optical disk memory card or other storage medium. Embodiments are not limited to operating with any particular type or types of storage media. To access a textual work in an audio representation a reader may listen as the audio corresponding to the text of the textual work is played back by a device via an audio output device such as a speaker or headphones. In some cases an audio representation of a textual work may be associated with visual content such as an image or a video. In such cases the audio of the audio representation may be stored together with or separately from data of the visual content as techniques described herein are not limited to use within any particular type of audio representation.

A textual work also may be available in an electronic representation. In some embodiments an electronic representation of a textual work may include the text of the textual work encoded in a text or character encoding scheme such as a binary data encoding scheme. Any suitable encoding scheme may be used as techniques described herein are not limited in this respect. The encoded text may be stored on one or more storage media which may be any suitable storage media as techniques described herein are not limited in this respect. In some cases a storage medium on which an electronic representation of a textual work is stored may be a storage e.g. memory or disk storage of a computing device. Such a computing device may be a device that is configured to perform functions other than presenting text of an electronic representation to a reader e.g. laptop or desktop personal computer a tablet computer or a smart phone or a device that is dedicated to presenting text of an electronic representation to a reader e.g. electronic book reader . When stored on a storage medium the text of an electronic representation may be arranged in one or more computer data structures e.g. one or more files which may be formatted in any suitable manner and may additionally include any suitable data or metadata as techniques described herein are not limited in this respect. To read a textual work in an electronic representation a reader may view portions of text of the textual work on a display screen of a computing device and may provide input to the computing device to display different portions of the text by scrolling the text or replacing displayed text with other text.

A textual work may be available in a hardcopy representation reproduced in a visually perceptible manner fixed on one or more media. For example the text may be printed engraved patterned embossed or otherwise produced on one or more media. The medium media on which the text is reproduced may be any suitable media as techniques described herein are not limited in this respect. In some embodiments a medium on which the text is reproduced may include wood or plastic. In some embodiments a hardcopy representation of a textual work may include the text printed using ink toner or another substance on paper and the hardcopy representation of the textual work may be or be included in for example a paperback or hardcover book a newspaper or a magazine.

In some embodiments a textual work may be available in two or three representations including an audio representation an electronic representation and or a hardcopy representation. Techniques described below may be used to assist a reader with switching between two representations of a textual work. It should be appreciated from the foregoing that embodiments are not limited to any particular type of textual work or any particular representations. For ease of description in some of the examples below the textual work may be referred to as a novel a hardcopy representation may be referred to as a book an electronic representation may be referred to as an eBook and an audio representation may be referred to as an audiobook but it should be appreciated that these are merely examples.

In the example of the reader is reading the novel in one representation referred to below as the source representation and wants to switch to reading the novel in another representation referred to below as the target representation such as by switching from eBook to audiobook . The reader may desire to find a position in the audiobook that corresponds to a position in the source representation referred to as a source position may be a position at which reader is reading the source representation or another point in the audiobook . When the source representation is eBook the source position may be the position of the eBook cursor. The cursor may be associated with a word position or any other suitable indication of position. When the target representation is audiobook the corresponding position in the target representation may be a time e.g. minute and second in the audiobook at which audio appears that corresponds to the words that appear in the eBook at the cursor position.

The environment of includes one or more servers that may assist the reader with switching between representations by identifying a position in the target representation of the textual work that corresponds to an identified position in the source representation. The server s may execute a position determination engine hereafter PDE that upon receiving a request from the reader for a corresponding position determines the corresponding position. The server s may be able to communicate with one or more data stores A that may include any suitable data that may be used by the PDE. The data store A may include for example a copy of the eBook a copy of the audiobook and in some embodiments a mapping indicating corresponding positions that were previously determined by the PDE. The PDE may be configured to process one or more portions of one or more representations of the novel as part of determining corresponding positions such as by performing ASR on an audio segment of the audio representation and or performing OCR on an image of a page of a hardcopy representation. The PDE of the server s may perform using ASR and or OCR processing capabilities of the position determining engine the ASR or OCR in any suitable manner including by performing the processing itself or by requesting that a separate ASR engine and or an OCR engine perform the processing and return results of the processing to the PDE.

To determine a corresponding position using the PDE reader may transmit a request to the server s . The request may include a source position in the source representation e.g. a current position at which the reader is reading the novel and may additionally identify the target representation.

The reader may transmit the request to the PDE and the server s in any suitable manner as the techniques described herein are not limited in this respect. In the example of the reader may operate one or more of devices to generate and transmit the request via computer communication network . Network may be any suitable network or combination of networks including one or more wired and or wireless communication networks. Network may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as a cellular network and or the Internet as the techniques described herein are not limited in this respect.

The device that transmits the request to the PDE and the server s may be a device that corresponds to the source representation or the target representation. For example in some embodiments the device that transmits the request may be a device that the reader is using to read the novel in the source representation. For example the reader may operate the eBook reader or may operate the audio player to generate and transmit the request. The devices may therefore each be configured with a position requesting engine that the devices may execute to generate and transmit the request and may include one or more network adapters to enable the devices to communicate via network to transmit the request. As part of generating the request the position requesting engine may identify a source position such as by reviewing information regarding the source representation that may include information indicating a furthest position in the source representation to which the reader has read asking the reader to input the source position via a user interface or in any suitable manner. The position requesting engine may also identify a target representation such as by requesting that the reader input the target representation via a user interface or in any suitable manner. Once the position requesting engine generates the request the engine transmits the request to the server s .

When the source representation is book the device may execute the position requesting engine to generate and transmit the request. In this case as part of generating the request the PDE may obtain an image of the book to identify the source position in the book . The device may be a device that includes a camera e.g. a smart phone or tablet computer in which case the position requesting engine may use the camera to obtain an image of at least a portion of the page that includes the position in the novel at which the reader would like to begin reading the novel in the target representation. The image may be included in the request that is transmitted to the PDE and the server s .

Upon receipt of a request from one of the devices identified the PDE may determine a target position in the target representation that corresponds to the source position that is identified in the request. The PDE may determine the corresponding position in any suitable manner examples of which are described below. Upon determining the corresponding position the PDE may identify the corresponding position for the user in any suitable manner. For example the PDE may transmit information identifying the target position to the device that transmitted the report and that device e.g. device may output the corresponding position to the reader via a user interface. It should be appreciated however that embodiments are not limited to identifying the corresponding position to a user in any particular way. In other embodiments the PDE may identify the corresponding position to a device e.g. device and the device may present the textual work to a user starting from the corresponding position. Additionally or alternatively in some embodiments the PDE may store the corresponding position in some manner. The PDE may in some embodiments additionally or alternatively notify a user of the corresponding position through transmitting a message to the user via e mail Short Message Service SMS message or other message.

It should be appreciated that the environment of is merely an example of environments in which some embodiments may be implemented and that techniques described herein are not limited to operating in the environment of .

Some embodiments may include a PDE that is implemented in whole or in part on a device that the reader may use to read the novel in one or more representations. Further in some environments the reader may access the novel in two different representations using the same device such that functionality of two or more of the devices and device may be implemented on the same physical device. In some such embodiments the combined device may be a tablet computer or other computing device that the reader may use to read eBook listen to audiobook take pictures of book and determine corresponding positions between representations .

In environments in which the PDE is on a same device the reader may use to read the novel the PDE may communicate with one or more other devices as part of determining a corresponding position. For example the PDE may communicate with another device via a network to determine whether a mapping already includes a corresponding position for a source position to add an entry indicating corresponding positions between two representations to a mapping and or to process a portion of a representation. In these embodiments to process a portion of a representation the PDE may send the portion to a device to perform the process such as by sending an audio segment to be processed using an ASR engine executing on another device or sending an image to be processed using an OCR engine executing on another device and may receive the results of the processing from the other device.

In some other embodiments both the PDE and the position requesting engine may be implemented apart from a device that the reader may use to read the novel in one or more representations. In these embodiments a device may implement the position requesting engine and a user or one or more of the devices may communicate with the device to request that the position requesting engine generate a request for a corresponding position in a target representation. In these embodiments the user or the device s may provide to the device that implements the position requesting engine information regarding a source position and a target representation. In some embodiments the position requesting engine and in some cases the PDE may be implemented on one or more of the devices and others of the devices may communicate with the device to request a corresponding position.

The process begins in block in which the PDE receives a request that identifies a source position in an audio representation and identifies the target representation as an electronic representation. The source position in the audio representation may be represented in any suitable manner. For example the source position may be represented as a time into the audio representation where the same position is found e.g. a number of minutes and or seconds e.g. an amount of time that would elapse if audio of the audio representation was played continuously until the source position was reached .

In block the PDE obtains an audio segment of the audio representation and performs automatic speech recognition ASR on the audio segment.

The audio segment that is obtained in block may be of any suitable length e.g. five or ten seconds as techniques described herein are not limited in this respect. In some embodiments the audio segment may be determined based on to the source position identified in the request received in block . For example the audio segment may be a segment that includes audio at the source position. The audio segment may be a segment that begins at the source position an audio segment that is centered at the source position a segment that ends at the source position or any other suitable segment that includes audio that relates to the source position.

The obtained portion of the audio representation is indicative of a position in a textual work at which the reader wants to begin reading the electronic representation. The audio can be used to determine the corresponding position in the electronic representation of the textual work.

In block the PDE performs ASR in any suitable manner on the audio segment to generate a textual representation of the audio segment. In some embodiments the PDE may include an ASR engine and may perform the ASR itself. In other embodiments the PDE may provide the audio segment to an ASR engine and request that the ASR engine perform ASR on it. Performing ASR includes analyzing audio of an audio segment to identify whether the audio corresponds to one or more words and or phrases and if so what words phrases correspond to the audio. As part of performing ASR an ASR engine may identify and output one or more words phrases and a confidence value that indicates a confidence of the ASR engine that the output words phrases are an accurate representation of an audio segment. Therefore in block by performing ASR on the audio segment the PDE may obtain a textual representation of the audio segment that includes one or more words phrases and may obtain a confidence value indicating a confidence of an ASR engine that the textual representation is an accurate representation of the audio.

In block the PDE searches the electronic representation for text that matches the textual representation of the audio segment. The PDE may search the electronic representation in any suitable manner including by obtaining a copy of the electronic representation and searching the electronic representation itself or by providing the textual representation to a search engine and requesting that the search engine search the electronic representation based on the textual representation of the audio segment. To search the electronic representation encoded text of the electronic representation which may be stored in one or more data structures may be reviewed to determine whether any of the encoded text matches the textual representation of the audio segment.

Any suitable search technique may be used. In some embodiments the search may review the electronic representation to determine whether any text included in the electronic representation exactly matches the textual representation of the audio segment. Like when a sequence of words included in the text is identical to a sequence of words included in the textual representation of the audio segment. In some other embodiments in addition to or as an alternative to determining whether any text included in the electronic representation is an exact match the search may review the electronic representation to determine whether any text is similar to the textual representation e.g. by performing a fuzzy search of the electronic representation based on the textual representation of the audio segment.

Embodiments may use a fuzzy search or other search to review the electronic representation for text that is similar rather than an exact match to compensate for errors that may in the textual representation of the audio segment due to misrecognition by the ASR engine in block . In cases in which the textual representation is incorrect if the electronic representation were only searched for text exactly matching the textual representation it is possible that no matching text would be found or that an incorrect match would be detected.

In block the PDE may search the electronic representation for matching text which may include searching the electronic representation for text that is similar but not an exact match for the textual representation of the audio segment. As mentioned above in some embodiments a fuzzy search may be carried out. In some embodiments the search may review the electronic representation for text that has a low edit distance to the textual representation of the audio segment. The edit distance for text in the electronic representation relative to the textual representation of the audio segment indicates a number of changes that would need to be made to the text in the electronic representation to produce the textual representation of the audio segment. The changes may include changes to characters included in the text changes to words included in the text and or any other changes that may be made to text. A search may be performed for text having a low edit distance to the textual representation because text that has a low edit distance may be more similar to the textual representation than text having a higher edit distance. In some embodiments text having a low edit distance may be identified as text having an edit distance below a threshold. In some embodiments in addition to or as an alternative to searching the electronic representation for text having a low edit distance to the textual representation the electronic representation may be searched for text that is acoustically similar to the textual representation. Text that is acoustically similar to the textual representation may include text that has phones or phonemes in common with the textual representation. For example acoustically similar text may have a majority of or more than a threshold percentage of phones phonemes in common with the textual representation. In some embodiments search techniques that use finite state machines FSMs may be used to perform the search of block . However any suitable search techniques may be used as techniques described herein are not limited in this respect.

In block the PDE determines whether matching text was identified through the searching of block . If it is determined in block that no matching text was identified then in block the PDE may output as a response to the request of block a message indicating that no corresponding position was identified. If however in block the PDE determines that matching text was identified then in block the engine outputs as a response to the request a message indicating that a corresponding position was identified. The message indicating that a corresponding position was identified may include the corresponding position and may identify as the corresponding position a position at which the matching text appears in the electronic representation. The corresponding position may be identified in any suitable manner. Non limiting examples of ways to identify the corresponding position in the textual work include a word location or a relative position. The word location may indicate for the electronic representation a location of a word that corresponds to the source position of the audio representation where the location of the word may be expressed as for example a count of words that precede the word. A relative position may be a fractional or percentage position that indicates an amount of content that precedes the source position in the audio representation such as whether the source position is at approximately halfway through the audio representation three quarters of the way through the audio representation twenty percent of the way through etc. Messages may be output in block in any suitable manner as discussed above. In some cases the message may be output via a user interface or via a network adapter. In some embodiments e.g. where source and target representation are stored on or accessible to the same device and may be presented to a user on the same device the PDE may output the message in block by triggering presentation of the textual work in the target representation from the corresponding position.

In the example of if matching text is not found as a result of the search of block a failure message is output in block . All embodiments are not limited to outputting a failure message in response to not finding matching text after only one search of text of the electronic representation. In some embodiments if matching text is not identified through the searching of block the PDE may instead obtain a new audio segment from the audio representation perform ASR on the new audio segment and search based on a textual representation of the new audio segment. The engine may continue obtaining new audio segments and searching based on new textual representations until matching text is found or until a threshold number of retries is made. In embodiments in which a new audio segment is obtained any suitable audio segment can be obtained. In some such embodiments the new audio segment may be within a threshold distance of the source position identified in the request received in block . For example the new audio segment may be a segment that appears a number of seconds before or after the source position. In other embodiments the new audio segment may also include the source position which was included in the audio segment obtained in block . The new audio segment may be an audio segment that includes the source position at a different position in the audio segment than a previous audio segment. For example if an audio segment that starts at the source position was previously obtained then the new audio segment may be an audio segment that ends at the source position. As another example an audio segment of a different length may be obtained. If a previously obtained audio segment was three seconds long a new audio segment may be five seconds long. A longer audio segment may include more words and or phrases than a shorter audio segment and the ASR engine may in some cases be able to recognize better an audio segment with more words phrases. The examples described above for obtaining alternative audio samples are merely illustrative as the techniques described herein are not limited to obtaining a new audio segment in any particular manner.

In some cases the textual representation generated by an ASR engine from the audio segment may include a sequence of words that appears multiple times in the electronic representation. In some embodiments the search of block may return the first instance of matching text and not return other instances. In other embodiments the search may return multiple instances of matching text. When that multiple instances of matching text are returned embodiments may evaluate the instances in any suitable manner to select one of the instances to identify as corresponding to the audio segment. In some embodiments the engine may evaluate relative positions of the instances and the source position. The PDE may determine a relative position in the audio representation at which the source position appears and may also determine a relative position for each of the multiple instances of matching text. After determining the relative positions the PDE may select the instance of matching text having a relative position closest to the relative position of the source position and in block return the position of that instance. In other embodiments rather than evaluate multiple matching instances if the textual representation includes text that appears multiple times in the electronic representation the PDE may obtain a new audio segment. The new audio segment that the engine obtains may be one that is more likely to include a sequence of words that is unique in the electronic representation. A longer audio segment may be more likely to include a unique sequence of words than a short audio segment with fewer words. Accordingly if the searching of block returns multiple instances of matching text in some embodiments the PDE may obtain a longer audio segment. The longer audio segment may be a segment that includes the source position such as an audio segment that starts at the same position as a previously obtained audio segment but that is longer. After obtaining the longer audio segment the engine performs ASR on the segment and searches the electronic representation based on the textual representation of the longer audio segment. Because the longer audio segment may correspond to a unique sequence of words it may be more likely that a result of the searching will include only one instance of matching text. The above discussed examples of addressing cases in which multiple instances of text are returned are merely illustrative as multiple matching instances can be addressed in any suitable manner.

ASR engines may be configured to perform ASR based on a set of words and or phrases. For example some ASR engines may be configured with a lexicon of words and may also be configured with language models that include N grams identifying how words may be arranged to form sequences of N words. The ASR engine may evaluate audio segments to identify these words and phrases of the set. In the case that an audio segment includes a word or phrase that does not appear in the set of words phrases with which the ASR engines is configured the ASR engine may not accurately recognize the audio segment and a textual representation generated by the ASR engine may be incorrect.

Some textual works may include uncommon words or phrases or words or phrases that were created by the author. For example textual works may include names or idioms that were created by authors. In the case that an audio segment includes one of these uncommon or created words or phrases an ASR engine may not properly recognize the audio segment.

In some embodiments a PDE may configure an ASR engine with words and or phrases that appear in a textual work. In some such embodiments the PDE may review the words and or phrases that appear in an electronic representation of the textual work and configure the ASR engine based on the evaluation. For example the PDE may create a set of words phrases that appear in the textual work and may configure an ASR engine with the set. As a particular example the PDE may create a lexicon language model and or any other suitable description of the text of a textual work and configure an ASR engine to use that lexicon language model description when performing ASR on an audio representation of the textual work. In other embodiments the PDE may add one or more words phrases that appear in the textual work to a set of words phrases with which an ASR engine is configured. For example the PDE may supplement a lexicon or language model with which an ASR engine is configured with words phrases that appear in the textual work and that did not appear in the lexicon or language model. The PDE may supplement the lexicon or language model in any suitable manner including by adding the words phrases that appear in the textual work to the lexicon or language model.

Prior to the start of the process an ASR engine is configured to perform ASR using a lexicon and a language model among other models or other information that may be used in determining words that appear in audio segments. The lexicon includes one or more words and the language model includes one or more N grams which may be sequences of N grams words where N is a digit .

The process begins in block in which the PDE accesses the lexicon and the language model with which the ASR engine is configured to review the words and N grams included in the lexicon and language model. In block the PDE obtains the text of the electronic representation of the textual work reviews the text and compares the text to the lexicon and language model. In particular in block the PDE determines whether any of the words that appear in the textual work or any of the N grams that appear in the textual work do not appear in the lexicon or language model.

In block the PDE determines whether any of the words or N grams of the textual work were determined to be not included in the lexicon or language model with which the ASR engine is configured. If not and all words N grams appear in the lexicon and language model the process ends. However if the engine determines in one block that one or more words or N grams are not included in the lexicon or language model then in block the engine adds the excluded words N grams to the lexicon or language model with which the ASR engine is configured. By adding the excluded words N grams the ASR engine is configured with the excluded words N grams and will be able to recognize the words N grams in the audio representation of the textual work. This may increase this likelihood that the ASR engine will accurately recognize audio segments of the audio representation. Once the words N grams are added in block the process ends.

Following the process the ASR engine may be used to recognize one or more audio segments of an audio representation of the textual work and may recognize in the audio segments words or N grams that were added in block . In some embodiments after the ASR engine is used to recognize the audio segments of the audio representation the words and or N grams that were added in block may be removed. The words and N grams may be removed to prevent the ASR engine from recognizing those words N grams in audio segments of audio representations of other textual works. This may be useful where the words or N grams correspond to words or idioms that an author created and that are therefore unlikely to appear in other works. In other embodiments however the words N grams may not be removed from the lexicon or language model.

In the example of the words and N grams that are determined to have been excluded from the set of words phrases with which the ASR engine is configured e.g. excluded from the lexicon or language model are added to the set. It should be appreciated that embodiments are not limited to determining excluded words N grams and adding the excluded words N grams to the set. In some embodiments words N grams may be added to the set without first determining whether any of the words or N grams were not included in the set. For example in embodiments in which the ASR engine uses a language model the N grams of the textual work may be used to update the language model regardless of whether any of the N grams were previously included in the language model. This may serve to add N grams that were previously excluded as well as to add instances of previously included N grams to the language model and thereby increase the probability maintained by the language model of each N gram occurring in a textual work. The techniques described herein are not limited to updating a set of words phrases of an ASR engine in any particular manner.

In addition to a lexicon and language model some ASR engines may be configured with acoustic models that are used by the ASR engines to recognize phones or phonemes included in an audio segment. These acoustic models may be generic to all types of voices or may be associated with particular types of speaking voices such as adult voices and child voices male voices and female voices voices with particular accents etc. Some ASR engines may enable selection of acoustic models with which to process an audio segment which may enable selection of an acoustic model that matches the voice is speaking in the audio segment. In some embodiments the ASR engine and or the PDE may select an acoustic model with which to process an audio segment. The selection may be made before an audio segment that is to be recognized is obtained such as by configuring the ASR engine to use a particular acoustic model for processing all audio segments of an audio representation.

Selection of an acoustic model may be made based on evaluating some audio of the audio representation such as by analyzing a sample of the audio representation to determine characteristics of a voice appearing in the audio representation and selecting the acoustic model based on the characteristics. Such a process may be used when one person reads the text in the audio representation and the person s voice is relatively consistent throughout the audio representation. When an audio representation includes text being read aloud one person may read the text and change his her voice throughout e.g. using different voices or accents for different parts of a textual work such as different voices for quotes from different characters in a novel or two or more people may read the text. In these other cases the ASR engine may configure itself or the PDE may configure the ASR engine to use a particular acoustic model after an audio segment has been selected and a voice appearing in the audio segment has been analyzed. Accordingly in some cases different acoustic models may be used to recognize different portions of an audio representation of a textual work. In some embodiments selection of an acoustic model may be made based on characteristics of a voice appearing in an audio segment while in other embodiments the selection may additionally or alternatively be based on previously stored information regarding a speaker whose voice is included in the audio segment. For example an audio representation of a textual work may be associated with metadata identifying and or describing a speaker who reads text aloud in the audio representation and a selection of an acoustic model may be made based on the information identifying describing the speaker.

When an ASR engine produces a textual representation of an audio segment the ASR engine may also produce a value that indicates a confidence of the ASR engine that the audio segment was accurately recognized. In some cases the confidence value may indicate that the ASR engine has a low confidence that the textual representation is an accurate recognition of an audio segment. In some such cases it may be wasteful for the PDE to search an electronic representation based on the textual representation. Because the textual representation in these cases may have a high likelihood of being incorrect searching the text of the electronic representation may not return any results or may return an incorrect result. Accordingly in some embodiments the PDE may evaluate a confidence value returned by the ASR engine together with a textual representation of an audio segment to determine whether to search an electronic representation based on the textual representation.

The process begins in block in which the PDE obtains an audio segment of an audio representation of a textual work and performs ASR on the audio segment. The audio segment may be an audio segment that includes audio appearing at the audio position. As discussed above the PDE may perform ASR on an audio segment in any suitable manner including by providing the audio segment to an ASR engine external to the PDE and requesting that the ASR engine perform ASR on the audio segment. As a result of performing ASR on the audio segment the PDE receives a textual representation of the audio segment and a confidence value.

In block the PDE determines whether the confidence value for the textual representation is low by determining whether the confidence value is below a threshold or in any other suitable manner. If the engine determines in block that the confidence value is not low then in block the engine searches an electronic representation of the textual work based on the textual representation. The PDE may search the electronic representation in any suitable manner including according to techniques described above in connection with . After the engine searches the electronic representation the process ends.

If however the PDE determines in block that the confidence value is low the engine returns to block to select a new audio segment of the audio representation. In some embodiments the new audio segment may include audio that appears in the audio representation at the source position. However in these embodiments the audio segment may be a different audio segment than an audio segment obtained previously by the engine. For example when previous audio segments started at the source position a new audio segment may end at the source position. As another example the audio segment may be of a different length than prior audio segments such as being longer or shorter than prior audio segments. In other embodiments the new audio segment may not include audio that appears in the audio representation at the source position. Rather in some embodiments the new audio segment may be an audio segment that is proximate to the source position but does not include audio that appears at the source position. For example the new audio segment may be an audio segment that is within a threshold distance of the source position such as a segment that starts or ends within a threshold distance of the source position. These are merely examples of ways of selecting a new audio segment as any suitable technique may be used in block .

Once the new audio segment is obtained the engine performs ASR on the new audio segment in block and in block evaluates the confidence value produced for the new audio segment. The engine may continue selecting new audio segments until an acceptably high confidence value is determined.

While not illustrated in in some embodiments a limit may be placed on the number of new audio segments evaluated. If after a threshold number of times a sufficiently high confidence value has not been produced the PDE may stop obtaining audio segments and output a message that a corresponding position could not be determined such as the message discussed above in connection with .

The processes of were described in connection with determining a position in an electronic representation of a textual work that corresponds to a position in an audio representation of the textual work in response to receiving a request from a reader that identifies a source position in an audio representation. The processes of may therefore be used to identify a position in an electronic representation and output that position. In some embodiments the processes of or similar processes may also be used as part of determining a position in an audio representation that corresponds to a position in an electronic representation in response to receiving a request from a reader that identifies a source position in an electronic representation.

The process begins in block in which the PDE receives a request to identify a position in an audio representation of a textual work. The request may identify a source position in an electronic representation of the textual work and that the target representation is the audio representation. The source position may be identified in any suitable manner as techniques described herein are not limited in this respect. In some embodiments the source position may be identified by a position of a word in the electronic representation which may be a count of the number of words that precede the word in the electronic representation. In other embodiments the source position may be identified by a relative position in the electronic representation. As discussed above a relative position in a representation may be a percentage that indicates an amount of content that precedes the position in the representation such as whether the position is at approximately halfway through the audio representation three quarters of the way through the audio representation twenty percent of the way through etc.

In response to receiving the request in block the PDE begins determining a position in the audio representation that corresponds to the source position identified in the request. To do so in block the engine estimates a position in the audio representation that corresponds to the source position. The engine may estimate the position in any suitable manner as techniques described herein are not limited in this respect. In some embodiments the PDE determines a relative position in the electronic representation that corresponds to the source position. When the source position received in the request is formatted as a relative position the source position may be used in block . In other cases the PDE may evaluate the source position and a length of the electronic representation to produce a relative position based on the source position. Once the engine determines the relative position based on the source position the relative position may be used to estimate a position in the audio representation. As mentioned above a relative position may be a fractional position that indicates an amount of content that precedes the position. To estimate a position in the audio representation based on an estimated position in the electronic representation the engine may set the estimated position to match the relative position of the source position in the electronic representation. For example if a relative position of the source position is 53 percent of the way through the electronic representation the PDE may in block set the estimated position to be 53 percent of the way through the audio representation. This estimate represents an initial guess and may be refined through the remainder of the process of as discussed below.

Once an estimated position in the audio representation is set in block in block the PDE obtains an audio segment that includes audio appearing at the estimated position performs ASR on the audio segment to produce a textual representation of the audio segment and searches the electronic representation based on the textual representation. These acts may be performed in any suitable manner including according to techniques described above in connection with .

As a result of the searching in block the PDE receives a position in the electronic representation where text appears that matches the textual representation produced by an ASR engine based on the audio segment appearing at the estimated position. In block the PDE determines whether the position determined as a result of block matches the source position. If it does then the engine may conclude that the estimated position corresponds to the source position. The engine may determine whether the position matches the source position in any suitable manner including by determining whether the position precisely aligns with the source position or whether the position is within a threshold distance from the source position. The engine may determine whether the position is within a threshold distance of the source position by evaluating relative positions of the two positions in the electronic representation. If the relative positions are within a threshold distance e.g. within one percent or three percent or any other suitable threshold the position determined in block may be determined to match the source position.

If the PDE determines in block that the position in the electronic representation determined in block matches the source position then the engine can infer that the most recent estimate of a position in the audio representation which is a position included in the audio segment obtained and recognized using ASR in block corresponds to the source position. Accordingly in block the engine outputs a response to the request received in block . The response may identify the most recently estimated position and the estimated position as corresponding to the source position and in some embodiments may result in a device starting presentation of the target representation from the corresponding position. The corresponding position may be identified in any suitable manner including as a time value. The time value may indicate for the audio representation an amount of time that would elapse if the audio representation were played back until the corresponding position reached. The response may be output in any suitable manner including using techniques discussed above in connection with . Once the response is output in block the process ends. As a result of the process a reader may be able to switch from reading a textual work in an electronic representation to reading the textual work in an audio representation by listening to the audio representation at a position that corresponds to a position at which the reader stopped reading the electronic representation.

If however the PDE determines in block that the position determined in block does not match the source position then the PDE in block refines the estimate of a corresponding position in the audio representation and returns to block to obtain a new audio segment perform ASR and search the electronic representation. The engine may refine the estimate in block in any suitable manner as techniques described herein are not limited in this respect. In some embodiments the PDE may refine the estimate using a form of Newton s Method for identifying a zero of a function but this is merely illustrative as other techniques may be used.

In some embodiments the PDE may refine the estimate based on a comparison of relative positions of the last estimated position and the position most recently determined as a result of the searching of block . As a result of the comparison the engine may determine whether a relative position of the position determined in block is before or after the relative position of the last estimated position. As discussed above a relative position may be a fractional or percentage position that indicates an amount of content that precedes the source position in the audio representation such as whether the source position is at approximately halfway through the audio representation three quarters of the way through the audio representation twenty percent of the way through etc. The engine may then select a new estimated position in the audio representation based on a difference between the relative position of the source position and the relative position of the matching text identified in block . The new relative position that is selected may be based on the difference in any suitable manner. In some embodiments the new relative position in the audio representation may be selected by adjusting the relative position of the last estimated position based on value determined by subtracting the relative position of the source position from the relative position of the position of matching text in the electronic representation. For example when the relative position of the position determined in block is before the source position the value determined through the subtraction may be added to the relative position of the last estimated position in the audio representation. If the position determined in block is after the source position the value determined through the subtraction may be subtracted from the relative position of the last estimated position in the audio representation. In other embodiments the new relative position in the audio representation may be selected by adjusting the relative position of the last estimated position in the audio representation based on a ratio of the source position in the electronic representation and the position of matching text in the electronic representation.

As a particular example of the use of a ratio assume the source position and therefore the first estimated position have relative positions of 53 percent and the position in the electronic representation determined in a first iteration of block has a relative position of 47 percent. A ratio between 53 percent and 47 percent is 1.128. Accordingly the engine may multiply the relative position of the estimate 53 percent in the first iteration by the ratio 1.128 to set a new relative position of 59.7 percent.

Once the new relative position is selected the estimated position in the audio representation may be set to a position in the audio representation that has this new relative position. To continue the example once the engine selects the relative position of 59.8 percent the engine may set a new estimated position in the audio representation that has a relative position of 59.8 percent.

After the estimated position is refined by setting a new estimated position the engine continues to block to select an audio segment that includes the new estimated position perform ASR on the new audio segment and search the electronic representation based on a textual representation of the new audio segment. As a result of the searching the engine will determine a new position in block and the evaluation of the estimated position in block and the refinement of the estimated position in block continues. If another round of refinement is to be performed in block then the new estimated position is set based on a ratio of the source position and the new position that was determined in the most recent performance of block .

To continue the example the last estimated position was 59.8 percent and the relative position of the new position determined in block i.e. the position in the electronic representation that corresponds to 59.8 percent of the way through the audio representation may be 55 percent. If the position having the relative position of 55 percent is determined in block not to match the source position at 53 percent then the engine may refine the estimate based on a ratio of the source position to the position determined in block in this case the ratio 53 percent 55 percent 0.963. The engine may therefore multiply the relative position of the last estimated position 59.8 percent and the ratio 0.963 to yield a new relative position of 57.6 percent.

The process of refining the estimate based on a difference between relative positions of the last estimated position in the audiobook and the position in the electronic representation determined as a result of the searching continues until the position determined as a result of the searching matches the source position. Then as discussed above the last estimated position is output in the response of block .

An example of the refinement process discussed in connection with blocks and of is illustrated in . In the example of a source representation is an electronic representation of a textual work and a target position is to be identified in an audio representation.

After the position ais identified an audio segment that includes position ais obtained ASR is performed on the audio segment to obtain a textual representation of the audio segment and the electronic representation is searched based on the textual representation as discussed in connection with block of . Through this process a position tin the electronic representation is determined as illustrated in . Because the position tis determined not to match the source position t it is determined that position adoes not correspond to the source position t. The process therefore continues to refine the estimated audio position as discussed above in connection with block of .

In particular a new audio position ais determined based on the previous position aand based on a ratio of the source position and the most recently determined text position in this case the ratio of source position tand the text position t . As illustrated in the position ais determined as a t t . After position ais determined the obtaining of an audio segment performing ASR and searching is repeated and a position tis determined as illustrated in . As shown position tis closer to the source position tthan the previously determined text position t meaning the new estimated audio position ais closer to the correct corresponding audio position than the previously determined position a. The refinement process may continue until the determined text position matches the source position as discussed above in connection with block of .

It should be appreciated that a search of the electronic representation based on a textual representation of an audio segment may not return a position of matching text or the ASR engine may not produce a sufficiently high confidence textual representation of any audio segment as discussed above in connection with . In a case in which the refinement of an estimated position cannot continue for these or other reasons the PDE upon determining that the refinement cannot continue may output a message indicating that a corresponding position could not be identified. In some embodiments as part of outputting the message the PDE may output the most recent estimated position. Despite that the most recent estimated position may not be exactly correct it may assist the reader in switching between representations of the textual work.

In some embodiments a source position in a source representation of a textual work may be determinable by evaluating a position of a cursor in the source representation. With respect to audio representations for example the position of a playback cursor may be maintained in information regarding an audio representation indicating a position at which playback of audio of the audio representation last ended. With respect to electronic representations a position cursor may be maintained in information regarding the electronic representation that indicates a word or a portion of the text of the electronic representation that was most recently presented on a display. In the case of an eBook for example a cursor may be associated with a first word of a passage of text most recently presented on a display. In embodiments in which such a cursor is maintained the position requesting engine and or the PDE may use the cursor information to determine a source position. For example the position requesting engine or PDE may set the source position to be equal to the cursor position.

In some embodiments however a source position may not be set to a cursor position. For example a reader may seldom cease reading at the first word of a passage of text displayed on a screen and may cease reading elsewhere within the passage. For example the reader may cease reading at the end of the first sentence in the passage end of the first paragraph in the passage 25 percent of the way through the passage or at some other point included within the passage of text. Therefore if the first word of the passage were used as a source position the source position may not correspond to the position at which the reader ceased reading and may not correspond to the position at which the reader would like to begin reading in a new representation.

Prior to the start of the process a reader may have been reading text of the electronic representation displayed on a screen of a computing device e.g. an eBook reader and a portion of the text may have been most recently displayed on a screen.

The process begins in block in which the position requesting engine receives via a user interface a request from a reader to identify a target position in a target representation. The request may be received in any suitable manner via any suitable interface as techniques described herein are not limited in this respect.

In block the position requesting engine determines a source position in the electronic representation to which the target position in the target representation is to correspond. To determine the position in block the engine evaluates a passage of text of the electronic representation that was most recently displayed on a screen for reading by the reader. The passage of text may be identified by information stored by the device on which text of the electronic representation is being displayed. In some embodiments the passage may be identified by a starting and ending point of the passage such that an entirety of the passage is identified in information stored by the device. In other embodiments a start of the passage may be identified such as by cursor information and an end of the passage may be determinable based on a size of the screen text size or other information.

Once identified the passage of text is evaluated to determine the source position in block . The source position may be determined as any suitable position appearing within the passage of text. In some embodiments the source position may be determined as the position of the first sentence end e.g. first full stop appearing in the passage of text. In other embodiments the source position may be determined as the position of the first paragraph break appearing in the passage of text. In still other embodiments a relative position may be used to determine the source position. For example a relative position such as 25 percent may be used and a position in the passage of text that is 25 percent of the way through the passage of text may be selected as the source position.

Once the source position is selected in block in block the position requesting facility generates and transmits a request for a position that corresponds to the source position. The request may be formatted in any suitable manner as the techniques described herein are not limited in this respect. In some embodiments the request that is generated and transmitted in block may include the source position and may additionally include an identification of the source representation and the target representation in which a corresponding target position is desired. The request may be transmitted to any suitable destination and in some embodiments may be transmitted via one or more communication networks e.g. the Internet to a server that is executing the PDE.

Once the request is generated and transmitted in block the process ends. As a result of the process the position requesting engine has a source position and as discussed above in connection with sends a request to a PDE that includes the source position. The PDE may then determine a target position that corresponds to the source position and return the target position to the position request engine.

As discussed above in some embodiments a textual work may be available in one two or three representations an electronic representation an audio representation and a hardcopy representation. Techniques that may be implemented in some embodiments by a PDE for identifying corresponding positions in electronic representations and audio representations are discussed above. In some embodiments a PDE may additionally or alternatively implement techniques for identifying corresponding positions between a hardcopy representation of a textual work and a digital representation of the textual work. A digital representation may be an electronic representation or an audio representation or any representation in which the content of the representation is digitally encoded in some manner on one or more media.

The process begins in block in which the position requesting engine receives input from the reader identifying a target representation and requesting that a corresponding position in the target representation be identified. The target representation may be identified as an electronic representation or an audio representation.

In block in response to receiving the input from the reader the position requesting engine obtains an image of a portion of the hardcopy representation. The image may be of a portion that includes a position at which the reader would like to begin reading the textual work in a digital representation. The image may be for example an image of a page or of a portion of a page or any other suitable image of a portion of a hardcopy representation. The engine may obtain the image in any suitable manner. In some embodiments the engine may obtain the image as input from the reader such as where the reader has previously obtained the image and provides the previously obtained image to the position requesting engine. In other embodiments the engine may be executing on or coupled to a device that includes a camera and the position requesting engine may include an interface by which a reader may operate the camera to capture the image. Once the image is captured the position requesting engine may obtain the image.

In block once the position requesting engine obtains the image the position requesting engine transmits to a PDE a request that includes the image. The request may identify the target representation identified by the reader in the input received in block . Once the request is transmitted in block the process ends.

The process of starts in block in which the PDE receives a request to identify a corresponding position. The request may be received in any suitable manner including via a computer communication network. The request received in block includes an image of a portion of the textual work in the hardcopy representation for which the PDE is to determine a corresponding position in a digital representation. The request received in block may also identify a target representation.

In block the PDE determines the source position in part by processing the image received in block . The image may be processed using a character recognition process. An optical character recognition OCR process is an example of a character recognition process. Through the character recognition process text corresponding to the image data can be generated. Once a textual representation of the image data is generated a source position in the textual representation is identified by the PDE in any suitable manner. For example the engine may determine the source position to be a start of the text included in the image a position after a start of the textual representation the position of the first sentence end e.g. the first full stop included in the text or the first paragraph break included in the text a relative position e.g. 25 percent into the text appearing in the image etc. Any suitable position in the textual representation may be selected as the source position.

Once the source position is identified in block in block a text string that includes text appearing at the source position is selected and an electronic representation of the textual work is searched for text matching the text string. The text string may be any suitable text string that includes text appearing at the source position including a text string that starts at the source position a text string that ends at the source position a text string that is centered at the source position etc. The search of block based on the text string may be carried out in any suitable manner including using the searching techniques discussed above in connection with .

As a result of the searching of block the PDE identifies a position in the electronic representation of text that matches the text string. In block the engine determines whether the request received in block indicated that the target representation is the electronic representation. If so then the position of the text determined from the searching is identified as the target position corresponding to the source position in the hardcopy representation and in block a message is output by the PDE that identifies the position determined in block as the target position. The message may be output by the PDE in suitable manner including according to any of the techniques described above in connection with .

If however the PDE determines in block that the target representation is not the electronic representation then the process continues to block . In block the PDE determines a position in an audio representation of the textual work that corresponds to the position in the electronic representation that was determined as a result of the searching of block . The engine may determine the position in the audio representation in any suitable manner including according to techniques described above in connection with . As a result of block the PDE has identified a position in the audio representation that corresponds to the source position in the hardcopy representation. The position in the audio representation is therefore identified as the target position corresponding to the source position and in block a message is output by the PDE that identifies the position determined in block as the target position. The message may be output by the PDE in suitable manner including according to any of the techniques described above in connection with .

Once a response message is output by the engine in block or the process ends. Following the process a reader may be informed of a position in a digital representation of a textual work that corresponds to a position in a hardcopy representation. The reader may then switch to reading the textual work in a digital representation and begin reading from the target position.

In some cases a reader may desire to switch from a digital representation of a textual work to a hardcopy representation. illustrates an example of a process that a PDE may implement in some embodiments to facilitate such switching. It should be appreciated that all embodiments are not limited to implementing a technique for determining a position in a hardcopy representation corresponding to a position in a digital representation and that embodiments that implement such a process are not limited to implementing the specific process of as other implementations are possible.

In some embodiments a process for switching from a digital representation of a textual work to a hardcopy representation of the textual work may use data collected by one or more hardcopy digitization services. A hardcopy digitization service such as the GOOGLE Books service available from Google Inc. of Mountain View Calif. may obtain images of pages of a hardcopy representation of a textual work. The images may preserve the formatting of a hardcopy representation including pagination of the hardcopy representation and graphics included in pages. The digitization service s may also make the hardcopy work electronically searchable such as by performing a character recognition process on the images of the pages to produce text corresponding to the images. By searching text maintained by a digitization services based on a text string a page of a hardcopy representation on which the text string appears can be identified. However digitization services may not include digitized copies of all editions of a textual work and there may be formatting differences between different hardcopy editions. For example pagination of a mass market paperback book of a novel may be different from the pagination of a first edition hardcover book of the novel. Accordingly it may not be desirable to search the digitization service unless it stores the same edition to which a reader wishes to switch.

Prior to the start of the process of a reader of a textual work in a digital representation decides to switch to reading the hardcopy representation. The process begins in block in which the position requesting engine receives input from the reader requesting that a corresponding position be identified and identifying that the target representation is a hardcopy representation. The request may also include any suitable information identifying an edition of the hardcopy representation to which the reader is to switch. For example the information regarding the edition may include an International Standard Book Number ISBN for the edition. The source representation may also be identified in the request. The source representation may be an electronic representation or an audio representation.

In block one or more digitization services are queried based on the information regarding the edition to determine whether any of the service s store information on the edition to which the user desires to switch. If the engine determines in block that the digitization service does not store information on the edition identified by the request received in block in block the engine may output a message indicating that a corresponding position could not be identified and the process ends.

If however the PDE determines that a digitization service stores information on the edition of the hardcopy representation to which the reader intends to switch the process continues to block . In block the PDE determines whether the source position identified in the request received in block is a position in an electronic representation or a position in an audio representation. If it is determined in block that the source position is a position in an audio representation then in block the PDE determines a position in an electronic representation that corresponds to the source position in the audio representation. The PDE may determine the corresponding position in the electronic representation in any suitable manner including according to any of the techniques described above in connection with .

Once the PDE determines a position in an electronic representation either because the source position was a position in the electronic representation or through the processing of block in block the engine obtains text string that includes text appearing in the electronic representation at the position. The text string may be any suitable text string of any suitable length as techniques described herein are not limited in this respect. In some embodiments the text string may be a string of text that begins at the position in the electronic representation ends at the position in the electronic representation or is centered at the position in the electronic representation or any other suitable text string.

Once the PDE obtains the text string in block the PDE queries the digitization service based on the text string and the desired edition of the hardcopy representation. The engine may query the digitization service via any suitable interface including an Application Programming Interface API and or a web interface. As a result of the searching of block the PDE receives from the digitization service an identification of a page of the desired edition on which text that matches the text string appears. The text that matches the text string may be text that exactly matches the text string or text that is similar to the text string as techniques described herein are not limited in this respect. After receiving the identification of the page in block the engine outputs a message as a response to the request received in block . The response message may include any suitable information including information identifying a page number in the edition as the target position that corresponds to the source position. After the engine outputs the message in block the process ends. As a result of the process a reader may be informed of a position in a hardcopy representation that corresponds to a position in a digital representation so the reader may be able to pick up reading in the hardcopy representation at the position where he she left off.

In the discussion of above the response to the query of the digitization service in block was assumed to include a single result that identifies a position in the hardcopy representation at which text appears that matches the text string obtained from the electronic representation. In some cases however the response to the query of the digitization service in block may not include a position in the hardcopy representation or may include multiple positions at which the text matching the text string appears in the hardcopy representation. When the response to the query of block does not include a position in the hardcopy representation the PDE may output a response message that includes a notification that a corresponding position could not be determined. When the response to the query of block includes multiple positions the PDE may infer that the text string obtained in block was not a text string that was unique in the textual work and may obtain a text string that has a higher likelihood of being unique by obtaining a longer text string than the string that was obtained in block . Any suitable text string may be obtained. Once the PDE obtains the longer text string the PDE may query the digitization service based on the longer text string. The engine may repeat the process of obtaining longer text strings until the response to the query of the digitization service includes only a single position does not include any matching position or in some embodiments until a threshold number of retries have been performed.

Additionally while in the example of an error message is output in block when the digitization service does not include data for the desired edition it should be appreciated that the techniques described herein are not limited in this manner. In some embodiments the PDE may determine whether the digitization service includes information on any edition of the textual work which may be editions other than the edition to which the reader desires to switch. If so then the PDE may determine a corresponding position in another edition using the operations discussed in connection with blocks . Once a corresponding position in another edition is determined the PDE may output a message indicating the corresponding position in the other edition and identifying that this may not be a correct position but is an estimate based on other editions of the textual work. In other embodiments in addition to or as an alternative to determining the corresponding position in another edition of the textual work the PDE may determine a relative position for the source position and output a message including the relative position. When the relative position is returned the reader may be able to use the relative position to estimate a corresponding position in the hardcopy to which the reader desires to switch which may assist the reader in manually determining the corresponding position.

In the illustrative processes discussed above in connection with a PDE in response to receiving a request for a target position corresponding to a source position examines one or more portions of a source representation and or a target representation to determine the target position. In some embodiments the PDE may perform such a process each time a request is received for a corresponding position and as such may examine one or more portions of a representation of a textual work each time a request is received to determine a new corresponding position in the textual work. In some cases a reader may request a target position that the PDE previously determined. For example a reader may request a target position that the reader previously requested. As another example in some embodiments in which a PDE executes on a server or is otherwise accessible by multiple readers one reader may request a target position that another reader previously requested. In some such cases and in some environments it may be efficient to take advantage of previous determinations of target positions by storing in a mapping source positions and target positions determined to correspond.

Process begins in block in which a PDE receives a request to identify a corresponding position. The request may identify a source position a source representation and a target representation.

In block the PDE reviews a mapping to determine whether the mapping includes an entry for the source representation and target representation that includes a position that matches the source position. In some embodiments a mapping may include pairs of corresponding positions for pairs of representations. For example such a mapping may include corresponding positions between electronic representations and audio representations electronic representations and hardcopy representations and or audio representations and hardcopy representations. Entries of a mapping may include two positions a position in one representation and a position in another representation. The PDE may review the mapping in block to determine whether any of the entries that include a pair of positions for the source and target representations identified in the request include a position that matches the source position.

The PDE may determine whether the mapping includes an entry with a position that matches the source position in any suitable manner. In some embodiments the PDE may determine whether the mapping includes an entry with a position that exactly matches the source position. The position of the entry may exactly match the source position when for example the source position is included in the entry. In other embodiments the engine may determine whether the mapping includes an entry having a position that matches the source position by determining whether the mapping includes an entry having a position that is similar to the source position. A position may be determined to be similar to the source position in any suitable manner. In some embodiments a position may be similar to the source position when the position is within a threshold distance of the source position. Whether the position is within a threshold distance of the source position may in some such embodiments include comparing relative positions in the source representation of the position in the entry and the source position. In this case when a difference between the relative positions is below a threshold the position in the entry may be determined to be similar to the source position and may be identified as a match to the source position.

It may be beneficial in some embodiments to identify similar positions as matched positions because this may lead to gains in efficiency in some environments. There may be a lower likelihood that a subsequent request may include an exact same source position as a source position of a previous request or a target position determined in response to a previous request but there may be a higher likelihood that a subsequent request may include a source position that is similar. Identifying similar positions may therefore allow an efficiency benefit that results from using the mapping to be realized for more requests. Using similar positions in this way may result in the PDE determining a corresponding position that is not precisely equal to the position that a reader desired to obtain but close enough for the reader. As discussed in the preceding paragraph in some embodiments thresholds may be used to determine similarity of position. In these embodiments the threshold may be set based on a degree of similarity that is acceptable to one or more readers with smaller thresholds resulting in positions that are more similar being determined to be matches and positions that are less similar being determined not to be matches. In some embodiments the threshold may be configurable e.g. for each individual reader to allow for adjusting the degree of similarity based on what is acceptable to the reader s .

The PDE may examine the mapping in block in any suitable manner. In some embodiments the mapping may be stored on one or more storage media of the same computing device that as the PDE is executing on and the engine may retrieve the mapping from the storage media to review the mapping. In other embodiments the mapping may be stored remotely from the computing device on which the PDE is executing and the PDE may transmit via a computer communication network a request to another computing device to review the mapping. The request may include any suitable information including the source position the source representation and or the target representation. In embodiments in which the mapping is stored remotely from the device on which the PDE is executing the mapping may include entries added to the mapping only by the PDE or in some embodiments may include entries added to the mapping by multiple different position determination engines executing on multiple different devices. In either case the entries may have been added in response to requests for corresponding positions received from multiple different readers.

If the PDE determines in block that a position matching the source position is included in an entry of the mapping then in block the other position indicated by the entry is obtained from the mapping and the PDE outputs to the request received block .

If however the PDE determines in block that the mapping does not include a position matching the source position in block the PDE determines a position that corresponds to the source position. The engine may determine the position in any suitable manner including using any of the techniques described above in connection with . Once the engine determines the target position in block in block the engine adds an entry to the mapping that identifies the source position the source representation and the target representation as well as the target position determined in block . In block the PDE outputs a response to the request received block which may include the target position determined in block and the process ends.

The process may be used to determine a target position that corresponds to a source position that was identified in a request for a corresponding position. It should be appreciated however that embodiments that maintain a mapping are not limited to reviewing a mapping for a position that is identified in a request received from a reader. In some embodiments a PDE may review a mapping based on an intermediate representation. As should be appreciated from the foregoing in some embodiments determining a position in one representation that corresponds to a position in another may include an intermediate act of identifying a position in a third representation. For example as discussed in connection with determining a position in a hardcopy representation that corresponds to a position in an audio representation may be performed in part by identifying a position in an electronic representation that corresponds to the position in the audio representation and using this position in the electronic representation to identify the position in the hardcopy. In embodiments that maintain a mapping when a position in an intermediate representation is to be determined the mapping may be reviewed to determine whether the mapping includes an entry for the position in the intermediate representation. In addition when a position in an intermediate representation is determined an entry including the position may be added to the mapping or when a target position is to be determined from an intermediate representation the mapping may be reviewed to determine whether the mapping includes an entry including the relevant position in the intermediate representation. Embodiments are not limited to maintaining or using a mapping in any particular manner.

In the examples discussed above once a target position is determined the PDE outputs a message that includes the target position. As discussed above the message may be transmitted to a device from which a request for a corresponding position was received and upon receiving the response message the device may output a message to a reader that includes the target position so as to inform the reader of the corresponding position. It should be appreciated that all embodiments are not limited to using a determined target position in this manner.

In some embodiments once a target position is determined for a digital target representation the PDE may transmit a message that causes the target representation of the textual work to be queued to the target position. The message may include an instruction to a device or engine that presents the digital representation to a reader. For example when the target representation is an electronic representation the message may be transmitted to a device e.g. eBook reader or facility that executes on a device and that presents text of the electronic representation to a reader e.g. an eBook reader application executing on a computing device such as a tablet computer or smart phone . As another example when the target representation is an audio representation the message may be transmitted to a device e.g. audio player or a facility that executes on a device and that presents audio of the audio representation to a reader e.g. an audio playing application executing on a computing device such as an a tablet or smart phone . The message may instruct the device or facility to update data stored by the device facility that indicates a position at which a reader is reading the textual work such as by instructing the device facility to update cursor information based on the target position. The message may in some cases additionally instruct the device or facility to begin presenting the digital representation to a reader such as by displaying text of an electronic representation or playing audio of an audio representation starting at the target position.

In some embodiments the PDE may upon determining a target position in a target representation cause a copy of the target representation to be provided to a reader. In these embodiments a reader may not have access to the target representation at a time that the reader requests to identify a target position in the target representation. Rather the reader may want to switch from a source representation to a target representation and may want to receive the target representation as well as be informed of the position in the target representation that corresponds to a source position. As one non limiting example a reader may be reading a hardcopy of a novel and may desire to have an eBook of the novel delivered to the reader s eBook reader and be informed on the eBook reader or in any other way of a position in the eBook that corresponds to a position in the hardcopy. The reader may request the copy and the corresponding position as part of a process for purchasing a copy of a target representation.

The process begins in block in which the PDE receives a request for a target position in a target representation that corresponds to a source position in a source representation. In response to the request the engine determines the target position. The engine may determine the target position in any suitable manner including according to any of the techniques discussed above in connection with .

Once the PDE determines the target position in block the engine provides a copy of the target representation to a device associated with the reader. The device associated with the reader may but need not be a device owned by the reader and may in some cases be a device from which the request was received in block . The engine may provide a copy of the target representation to the device in any suitable manner as techniques described herein are not limited in this respect. In some embodiments the engine may transmit a copy of the target representation to the device. In other embodiments the engine may communicate with a service that electronically distributes copies of the target representation e.g. an eBook distribution service or an audiobook distribution service and request that the service transmit a copy of the target representation to the device. The engine may communicate with the service in any suitable manner including by transmitting a request to one or more computing devices on which the service is executing. The request may be transmitted to the service via any suitable interface of the service as techniques described herein are not limited in this respect. In addition to providing a copy of the target representation to the device associated with the reader the PDE may configure the device with information regarding the target position determined in block . The engine may configure the device in any suitable manner including by providing the target position to the device and or by instructing or requesting that the device set a cursor position of the target representation based on the target position. By configuring the device with information regarding the target position the device may be configured to present content of the target representation to the reader e.g. by displaying text on a screen or playing audio starting from the target position.

Once the engine provides a copy of the target representation to the device and configures the device with information regarding the target position the process ends.

In some embodiments techniques described herein may be carried out using one or more computing devices. Techniques described herein are not limited to operating with any particular type of computing device.

Computing device may also include a network input output I O interface via which the computing device may communicate with other computing devices e.g. over a network and may also include one or more user I O interfaces via which the computing device may provide output to and receive input from a user. The user I O interfaces may include devices such as a keyboard a mouse a microphone a display device e.g. a monitor or touch screen speakers a camera and or various other types of I O devices.

The above described embodiments of the present invention can be implemented in any of numerous ways. For example the embodiments may be implemented using hardware software or a combination thereof. When implemented in software the software code can be executed on any suitable processor or collection of processors whether provided in a single computing device or distributed among multiple computing devices. It should be appreciated that any component or collection of components that perform the functions described above can be generically considered as one or more controllers that control the above discussed functions. The one or more controllers can be implemented in numerous ways such as with dedicated hardware or with general purpose hardware e.g. one or more processors that is programmed using microcode or software to perform the functions recited above.

In this respect it should be appreciated that one implementation of embodiments of the present invention comprises at least one computer readable storage medium e.g. a computer memory a floppy disk a compact disk a magnetic tape or other tangible non transitory computer readable storage medium encoded with a computer program i.e. a plurality of executable instructions that when executed on one or more processors performs the above discussed functions of one or more embodiments of the present invention. The computer readable medium may be non transitory and may be transportable such that the program stored thereon can be loaded onto any computing device to implement aspects of the present invention discussed herein. In addition it should be appreciated that the reference to a computer program which when executed performs any of the above discussed functions is not limited to an application program running on a host computer. Rather the terms computer program and software are used herein in a generic sense to reference any type of computer code e.g. application software firmware microcode or any other form of computer instruction that can be employed to program one or more processors to implement above discussed aspects of the present invention.

The phraseology and terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting. The use of including comprising having containing involving and variations thereof is meant to encompass the items listed thereafter and additional items.

Having described several embodiments of the invention in detail various modifications and improvements will readily occur to those skilled in the art. Accordingly the foregoing description is by way of example only and is not intended as limiting. The invention is limited only as defined by the following claims and the equivalents thereto.

