---

title: Systems, methods and computer program products for neurolinguistic text analysis
abstract: Computer-implemented methods can transform a corpus of meaningful text sequences into a generalized computer-usable repository of neurolinguistic information that can be applied by one or more computer systems. The computer system(s) can use the neurolinguistic information to neurolinguistically analyze meaningful text sequences to derive statistical information and identify dominant cognitive motivation orientations expressed in those text sequences. The identified dominant cognitive motivation orientations can be used to improve the efficacy of both human-generated and machine-generated communications. The computer system(s) thereby transform a meaningful text sequence into actionable information about the dominant cognitive motivation orientation(s) of the author of that text sequence within the context in which the text sequence was composed. Computer systems and computer-program products for implementing the methods are also described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09507769&OS=09507769&RS=09507769
owner: Weongozi Inc.
number: 09507769
owner_city: 
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20160127
---
This application is a Continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 865 985 filed on Apr. 18 2013 entitled SYSTEMS METHODS AND COMPUTER PROGRAM PRODUCTS FOR NEUROLINGUISTIC TEXT ANALYSIS which claims priority to Provisional U.S. Application No. 61 677 074 filed on Jul. 30 2012 the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to analysis of text sequences and more particularly to computer implemented neurolinguistic analysis of text sequences to discern information about cognitive motivation orientations expressed therein.

Written communication among people provides many opportunities for misunderstandings conflicts and lost opportunities because of the lack of non textual visual tonal and often contextual clues. One primary reason for this is that written communication is typically between parties who are physically remote from one another and therefore do not have the benefit of hearing vocal intonations or seeing one another s body language during the communication. Without these non textual clues the communicating parties must attempt to interpret one another based only upon the text as it appears often complete with typographical errors ambiguity and vagueness. These problems can be compounded by a lack of skill in writing.

Although traditional paper letters sent by mail or fax usually receive a reasonable degree of care and attention from their authors today many important written messages use instantaneous modes of communication which encourage rapid spur of the moment correspondence. Examples of such types of communication include electronic mail e mail text messaging via Short Message Service SMS or other systems as well as through various network based media on the Internet or otherwise including online chat systems and social media websites such as Facebook LinkedIn and Twitter among others. Such communications are typically composed quickly with little planning or attention to detail and are often written in an informal style.

Not surprisingly a recipient of such written correspondence may misunderstand the meaning or intention of the author which can require additional written correspondence or telephone conversations to resolve. In some cases relationships can be damaged where a recipient perceives an insult where none was intended. Even where this is not the case the wrong choice of words in responding to correspondence may fail to motivate the sender to take the action that the responder wants. Coupled with the fact that many people receive dozens or even hundreds of e mail and text messages a day there is enormous potential for miscommunication and missed opportunity.

Beginning in the 1970s a field known as neurolinguistics began to develop. According to neurolinguistic theory people do not choose the words they use accidentally the language a person uses is an indication of how they are thinking One development in neurolinguistics was the identification of meta programs describing how a person thinks gets motivated and makes decisions. Initially approximately 60 meta programs were identified Rodger Bailey divided a subset of these meta programs into motivation traits and working traits. Motivation traits are the patterns that indicate what a person needs to get motivated and stay motivated and working traits describe the internal mental processing that a person uses in a particular situation. Further research determined that meta programs were not a fixed representation of a person s personality cognition or psychology but instead shifted based on the context. The meta programs might be quite different if a person were at work doing grocery shopping worrying about a particular problem or lying on a beach. It was also determined that the language a person used in communication is an indicator of the operative meta programs at the time of that communication.

Thus a meta program is an example of what is referred to herein as a cognitive motivation orientation which refers to factors patterns and or elements that describe how a person thinks becomes motivated and makes decisions in a given context as determined from the language used in that context. One or more cognitive motivation orientations may be expressed within a given communication and these reflect how the author thinks becomes motivated and makes decisions in the context in which the communication originated. A cognitive motivation orientation is therefore different from a personality profile or psychological profile in that a cognitive motivation orientation relates to a particular context whereas a personality profile or psychological profile attempts to provide an overall characterization of an individual.

Importantly it has also been determined that how people react to certain types of language is related to the operative cognitive motivation orientation. Knowledge of a person s operative cognitive motivation orientation could therefore be used to predict and influence that person s behavior. Using language appropriate to the operative cognitive motivation orientation can create a positive impact while using incorrect language can easily trigger a negative reaction. A detailed discussion is provided in the book Words That Change Minds Mastering the Language of Influence by Shelle Rose Charvet a co inventor hereof published by Kendall Hunt Publishing Company 4050 Westmark Drive Dubuque Iowa 52002 Library of Congress Catalogue Card Number 97 70788 ISBN 978 0 7872 3479 9 the teachings of which are hereby incorporated by reference all rights reserved .

A trained individual can through judicious observation of a person s use of language determine which cognitive motivation orientations are operative for the person in that context. It also takes training to be able to choose the correct words phrases and actions to influence people based on their operative cognitive motivation orientations. These cognitive motivation orientations operate largely outside of a person s normal awareness as few people think about how they are thinking from moment to moment. Even with training to identify the specific indicators in language structures or behaviors one s ability to objectively correctly identify the cognitive motivation orientations can easily be colored by one s own unconscious preferences or dislikes. People often use trial and error strategies which take time and in high speed day to day communication this means opportunities to have a positive impact can easily be lost. Moreover a human being even a highly trained one would not be able to identify cognitive motivation orientations quickly objectively and consistently because of inherent biases.

An automated tool can objectively identify the cognitive motivation orientations expressed in a meaningful text sequence and can use this information in order to improve the effectiveness of written and oral communication whether human generated or machine generated. Application of statistical methods to documents that have been annotated by a human expert can be used to build an analysis database that can be used by the automated tool.

A computer implemented method for neurolinguistically analyzing text comprises receiving a meaningful first text sequence deriving first text sequence n grams from the first text sequence and comparing the first text sequence n grams to a plurality of predetermined indicator n grams. Each predetermined indicator n gram is associated with at least one cognitive motivation orientation and each predetermined indicator n gram has for each cognitive motivation orientation with which it is associated a corresponding cognitive motivation orientation confidence weight. For each first text sequence n gram matching a predetermined indicator n gram the method records the corresponding cognitive motivation orientation confidence weight for each cognitive motivation orientation associated with that predetermined indicator n gram.

The method may further comprise using the recorded cognitive motivation orientation confidence weights for the first text sequence to determine a first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed in the first text sequence.

In one embodiment recording the corresponding cognitive motivation orientation confidence weight for each cognitive motivation orientation associated with a particular predetermined indicator n gram comprises incrementing a corresponding first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight score for each cognitive motivation orientation associated with that predetermined indicator n gram according to the corresponding cognitive motivation orientation confidence weight. In such an embodiment the method may further comprise normalizing the first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight scores to obtain normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight scores. The method may yet further comprise comparing the normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight scores to respective corresponding normalized dominance thresholds and ranking the normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight scores according to the difference between each normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight score and its respective corresponding normalized dominance threshold to obtain ranked normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight scores.

The method may generate a first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set by identifying as dominant for the first text sequence each cognitive motivation orientation for which the associated normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight score exceeds a corresponding normalized dominance threshold and identifying as non dominant for the first text sequence each cognitive motivation orientation for which the associated normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight score does not exceed the corresponding normalized dominance threshold. The first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set may be generated by comparing the normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight scores to respective corresponding normalized dominance thresholds and ranking the normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight scores according to the difference between each normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight score and its respective corresponding normalized dominance threshold to obtain ranked normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight scores. The first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set may comprise m or fewer cognitive motivation orientations where m is a positive integer and where m or more cognitive motivation orientations are identified as dominant for the first text sequence the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set may comprise the m most highly ranked cognitive motivation orientations.

The method may further comprise providing recommendations for preparation of a meaningful second text sequence addressing the first text sequence with the recommendations being based on the first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set.

In some embodiments the method may further comprise receiving a meaningful second text sequence addressing the first text sequence deriving second text sequence n grams from the second text sequence comparing the second text sequence n grams to the plurality of predetermined indicator n grams and for each second text sequence n gram matching a predetermined indicator n gram recording the corresponding cognitive motivation orientation confidence weight for each cognitive motivation orientation associated with that predetermined indicator n gram. The recorded cognitive motivation orientation confidence weights for the first text sequence may be used to determine a first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed in the first text sequence and the recorded cognitive motivation orientation confidence weights for the second text sequence may be used to determine a second dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed in the second text sequence. The method may further comprise testing whether the second dominant cognitive motivation orientation set fits the first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set. Responsive to a determination that the second dominant cognitive motivation orientation set fits the first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set the fit may be confirmed and responsive to a determination that the second dominant cognitive motivation orientation set misfits the first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the first text sequence the misfit may be identified. The method may yet further comprise responsive to identifying the misfit providing recommendations for modifying the second text sequence to fit a corresponding modified second dominant cognitive motivation orientation set to the first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set.

A computer implemented method for analyzing text comprises receiving a meaningful first text sequence and neurolinguistically analyzing the first text sequence to generate first statistical information representing cognitive motivation orientations expressed within the first text sequence.

In one embodiment neurolinguistically analyzing the first text sequence comprises extracting elements from the first text sequence and conducting a first comparison by comparing the elements extracted from the first text sequence to predetermined elements associated with cognitive motivation orientations to derive the first statistical information and further comprises determining a first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed within the first text sequence based on the first statistical information.

The method may further comprise providing recommendations for preparation of a meaningful response addressing the first text sequence with the recommendations being based on the first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set. The response may be for example a meaningful second text sequence.

The method may further comprise receiving a meaningful second text sequence and neurolinguistically analyzing the second text sequence by extracting elements from the second text sequence and conducting a second comparison by comparing the elements extracted from the second text sequence to predetermined elements associated with cognitive motivation orientations. Second statistical information is derived from the second comparison. A second dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed within the second text sequence may be determined based on the second statistical information and the method may further comprise testing fit between the first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set and the second dominant cognitive motivation orientation set. Responsive to a determination that the second dominant cognitive motivation orientation set misfits the first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed the misfit can be identified. Also responsive to a determination that the second dominant cognitive motivation orientation set misfits the first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set the method may comprise presenting recommendations for modifying the second text sequence to fit a corresponding modified second dominant cognitive motivation orientation set to the first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set.

In one embodiment the first text sequence is an e mail message and the second text sequence is an unsent e mail response to the first text sequence in another embodiment the first text sequence is a transcription of a verbal communication.

In some embodiments the method may further comprise automatically selecting a predetermined response to the first text sequence from a set of predetermined responses based on the first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set. The predetermined response may be for example an advertisement.

In other embodiments the method may further comprise automatically dynamically generating a response to the first text sequence based on the first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed within the first text sequence the automatically dynamically generated response may be for example an advertisement.

A computer implemented method for receiving an analysis of text comprises transmitting a meaningful first text sequence from a first computer system and receiving at the first computer system a communication responsive to at least a result of automated neurolinguistic analysis of cognitive motivation orientations expressed in the first text sequence.

In one embodiment the communication is an advertisement. In another embodiment the communication comprises first statistical information representing cognitive motivation orientations expressed within the first text sequence. In yet another embodiment the communication comprises an identification of a neurolinguistically determined first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed within the first text sequence. The method may further comprise providing recommendations for preparation of a meaningful second text sequence addressing the first text sequence with the recommendations being based on a first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set.

The method may further comprise transmitting a meaningful second text sequence from the first computer system and in such embodiments the communication received at the first computer system may be responsive to the result of the automated neurolinguistic analysis of the cognitive motivation orientations expressed within the first text sequence and also to a result of automated neurolinguistic analysis of cognitive motivation orientations expressed within the second text sequence. In one particular embodiment the communication received at the first computer system may comprise first statistical information representing the cognitive motivation orientations expressed within the first text sequence and second statistical information representing the cognitive motivation orientations expressed within the second text sequence and the method may further comprise using the first statistical information and the second statistical information to carry out a test of fit between a first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed within the first text sequence and a second dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed within the second text sequence. In another particular embodiment the communication received at the first computer system may be responsive to the outcome of a test of fit between a neurolinguistically determined first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed within the first text sequence and a neurolinguistically determined second dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed within the second text sequence.

The communication received at the first computer system may identify at least one recommendation for modifying the second text sequence to fit a corresponding modified second dominant cognitive motivation orientation set to the first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set.

In some embodiments the first text sequence is an e mail message and the second text sequence is an unsent e mail response to the first text sequence. In other embodiments the first text sequence is a transcription of a verbal communication.

In certain embodiments the communication received at the first computer system comprises a predetermined response to the first text sequence with the predetermined response being automatically selected from a set of predetermined responses based on the result of the automated neurolinguistic analysis of the first text sequence. In certain other embodiments the communication received at the first computer system comprises an automatically dynamically generated response to the first text sequence based on the result of the automated neurolinguistic analysis of the first text sequence.

A method for building an analysis database associating n grams with cognitive motivation orientations comprises receiving a training corpus of training documents. Each training document comprises a plurality of meaningfully arranged words and each training document has at least one annotated word sequence therein. Each annotated word sequence is annotated with a corresponding word sequence level annotation identifying at least one cognitive motivation orientation associated with that annotated word sequence. The method further comprises generating indicator candidate n grams by for each annotated word sequence in each training document extracting n grams overlapping that annotated word sequence and associating each extracted n gram with the cognitive motivation orientation s associated with that annotated word sequence and applying at least one relevance filter to the indicator candidate n grams to obtain a set of indicator n grams. Each indicator n gram has as its associated cognitive motivation orientation the cognitive motivation orientation with which the corresponding indicator candidate n gram is most frequently associated.

In certain preferred embodiments applying at least one relevance filter to the indicator candidate n grams to obtain indicator n grams comprises at least one of 

The method may further comprise assigning a confidence weight to each indicator n gram. Assigning a confidence weight to each indicator n gram may comprises assigning a confidence weight equal to 

The method may further comprise building a normalized dominance threshold for the cognitive motivation orientations. In one embodiment building a normalized dominance threshold for the cognitive motivation orientations may comprise receiving a tuning corpus of tuning documents with each tuning document comprising a plurality of meaningfully arranged words and having a respective document level annotation identifying a dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for that tuning document. The method may obtain for each tuning document document raw confidence weight scores for each cognitive motivation orientation. The document raw confidence weight scores may be obtained by for each tuning document identifying each indicator n gram appearing in that tuning document and for each identified indicator n gram incrementing a document raw confidence weight score for the cognitive motivation orientation associated with that identified indicator n gram by the corresponding confidence weight. The method can then normalize the document raw confidence weight scores for each cognitive motivation orientation to obtain for each tuning document normalized document confidence weight scores for each cognitive motivation orientation. The method can use the normalized document confidence weight scores to select for each cognitive motivation orientation a normalized dominance threshold minimizing a number of incorrectly classified tuning documents. In one embodiment incorrect classification for a given tuning document with respect to a particular cognitive motivation orientation means that either 

The present disclosure also describes computer systems and computer program products embodying the above methods.

Reference is now made to which is a flow chart showing at a high level an exemplary computer implemented method for analyzing text. At step the method receives a meaningful first text sequence which may be any one of a variety of different types of text sequence as described further below. Within the context of this document a text sequence is meaningful when it conveys meaning to a literate human reader. As such a meaningful text sequence may be a complete document including a plurality of paragraphs a single paragraph a few sentences a single sentence a sentence fragment or even an abbreviated construct. For example a multi paragraph letter or e mail message is a meaningful text sequence and the sequence txt u l8r is also a meaningful text sequence meaning I will send you a text message later . So called emoticons which are sequences of ASCII characters that form primitive images to convey emotional information can also be or form part of meaningful text sequences. Examples of emoticons include quotations and separating commas do not form part of the emoticon 

At step the method neurolinguistically analyzes the first text sequence to generate first statistical information representing cognitive motivation orientations expressed within the first text sequence. The first statistical information may be sent to a different computer system for further processing or may be further processed by the computer system implementing the method . As will be explained in more detail below in preferred embodiments complicated morphological syntactic and semantic analysis is avoided in favor of statistical methods based on annotated training data.

As noted above in this specification the term cognitive motivation orientation refers to factors patterns and or elements that describe how a person thinks becomes motivated and makes decisions in a given context as determined from the language used in that context. Thus one or more cognitive motivation orientations may be expressed within a given meaningful text sequence. The informal term motivation trigger has also been used to refer to cognitive motivation orientations and has the same meaning. A cognitive motivation orientation is different from a personality profile or psychological profile such as one assigned according to the DISC personality theory Enneagram theory or another theory in that a cognitive motivation orientation relates to an individual s orientation in a particular context whereas a personality profile or psychological profile attempts to provide an overall characterization of an individual applicable across most or all contexts. Even in the case of a personality profile or psychological profile which makes use of neurolinguistic analysis the analysis is directed to providing an overall characterization of the individual s psychology or personality rather than an assessment of the motivation and orientation in a specific context. Thus the term cognitive motivation orientation as used herein is to be understood as being limited to a particular context in relation to which the person has expressed the language being considered as such a cognitive motivation orientation is language context limited.

As shown in in a preferred embodiment step of neurolinguistically analyzing the first text sequence to generate first statistical information representing cognitive motivation orientations expressed within the first text sequence comprises a sub step A of extracting elements from the first text sequence a sub step B of conducting a first comparison by comparing the elements extracted from the first text sequence to predetermined elements associated with particular cognitive motivation orientations and a sub step C of deriving the first statistical information from the first comparison. The first statistical information generated at step may be used to determine a dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed in the first text sequence. For a given meaningful text sequence there may be one or more cognitive motivation orientations that are dominant or no cognitive motivation orientation may be dominant. Accordingly a dominant cognitive motivation orientation set is a set of zero null one or more than one cognitive motivation orientations which are dominant for a particular meaningful text sequence. At step the method determines a first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed within the first text sequence based on the first statistical information. Alternatively where the first statistical information is sent to a different computer system that different computer system may carry out step .

The method may proceed to step A to communicate the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set determined at step for example to a user of the computer system executing the method or to another computer system. Step A could be used to help a human user compose an e mail letter text message or other text sequence for example an advertising or marketing document that is not necessarily responsive to any other text sequence. For example a user may be trying to compose a text sequence that has a specific dominant cognitive motivation orientation set and step A can communicate whether or not that user has succeeded.

The method may proceed to step B to provide recommendations for preparation of a meaningful second text sequence addressing the first text sequence with the recommendations being based on the first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set identified at step . These recommendations would typically suggest language to use and language to avoid the language suggestions will generally be independent of the substantive content. Where the first text sequence is an e mail letter text message or the like step B could be used to help a human user compose an e mail letter text message or the like in response. In other embodiments the text may be a transcription of a portion of a conversation. For example software implementing the method may be used in association with automated speech to text software to generate recommendations for a human customer service agent to respond to a verbal question or statement. Thus the response to the first text sequence may be a verbal response.

The method could proceed to step C to automatically select a predetermined response to the first text sequence from a set of predetermined responses based on the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed within the first text sequence. For example step C could be used where the method is used in association with a natural language processing system for handling customer queries. The first text sequence could be a customer query and the natural language processing system could parse this customer query to identify a class of predetermined responses that are responsive to the query and step C could select from within the class of predetermined responses the particular predetermined response that best fits the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed within the customer query. The first text sequence could also be a search string for example entered into an Internet or other search engine and the set of predetermined responses may be a set of advertisements each targeted toward a particular cognitive motivation orientation. Alternatively the method could proceed to step D to automatically dynamically generate a response to the first text sequence based at least in part on the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed within the first text sequence. For example in addition to choosing the information to convey based on the information requested in a query a virtual digital assistant may select the language used to respond to the query based on the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed within the first text sequence.

In a particular embodiment after presenting recommendations for a response to the first text sequence based on the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed within the first text sequence at step B the method can proceed to step . Alternatively step B may be omitted and the method may proceed directly from step to step . At step the method receives a meaningful second text sequence. For example the first text sequence may be an e mail message a text message or a letter and the second text sequence may be an unsent e mail message text message or letter response to the first text sequence. Unsent in this context means that the second text sequence has not been sent to the intended recipient that is the originator of the first text sequence although it may have been sent to the computer system implementing the method from a different computer system. In some embodiments the second text sequence may be in a different communication format than the first text sequence. For example a letter may be sent in response to an e mail or vice versa an e mail message may be sent in response to a text message and so on.

After receiving the second text sequence at step the method then proceeds to step where the method neurolinguistically analyzes the second text sequence to generate second statistical information representing cognitive motivation orientations expressed within the second text sequence. Step would typically be carried out in a manner identical to or analogous to the neurolinguistic analysis of the first text sequence at step . The method then proceeds to step where the method determines a second dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed within the second text sequence based on the second statistical information. Following step at step the method tests the fit between the first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed within the first text sequence and the second dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed within the second text sequence . A more detailed explanation of an exemplary technique for testing fit between two cognitive motivation orientation sets is provided below in the context of . Responsive to a determination that the second dominant cognitive motivation orientation set fits the first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set at optional step the method may provide a notification or confirmation of the fit after which the method ends. At step responsive to a determination that the second dominant cognitive motivation orientation set misfits the first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set the method identifies the misfit and may at optional step present recommendations for modifying the second text sequence so that the second dominant cognitive motivation orientation set as expressed in the second text sequence as modified better fits the first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set.

The first text sequence may be received step in a number of ways. For example the first text sequence may be input directly into a computer system executing the method . For example a human user may type the first text sequence or dictate it using speech to text software that is the first text sequence may be a transcription of a verbal communication. The first text sequence may also be obtained using optical text recognition OCR software to extract the text sequence from an image file such as an image of a hard copy document obtained using a peripheral scanner by extracting the text sequence from an existing file or other suitable techniques. Thus software implementing the method may be provided for a desktop computer laptop computer tablet computer smartphone or other computer system.

Alternatively the first text sequence and the second text sequence if any may be received at the computer system executing the method from a different computer system for example in a client server architecture. is a flow chart showing at a high level a first exemplary computer implemented method for receiving an analysis of text. The method may be implemented by a first computer system that is in communication with a second computer system that is executing the method . At step the first computer system transmits a meaningful first text sequence to the second computer system. The second computer system may then for example execute an implementation of the method . At step the first computer system receives from the second computer system a communication responsive to at least a result of automated neurolinguistic analysis of cognitive motivation orientations expressed within the first text sequence.

The communication received at step may comprise first statistical information representing cognitive motivation orientations expressed within the first text sequence which can be used to determine the first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set or may comprise an identification of the neurolinguistically determined first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set.

The communication received at step may be responsive to additional factors beyond the neurolinguistically determined dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed within the first text sequence. For example as described above in a virtual digital assistant context the communication may also be responsive to the specific information requested in a query. Similarly where the first text sequence is a search term entered into a search engine such as Google the communication received at step may also be responsive to the search term in addition to the neurolinguistically determined dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed within the first text sequence. As another example the communication received at step may comprise a set of search results whose contents and or organization are influenced by both the search term and the neurolinguistically determined dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed within the first text sequence.

The communication received at step may comprise a predetermined response to the first text sequence that is automatically selected from a set of predetermined responses based on the result of automated neurolinguistic analysis of the first text sequence. For example the communication received at step may comprise advertisements which are based on the search term and whose language is based on or selected based on the neurolinguistically determined dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed within the first text sequence. Similarly the first text sequence may be an e mail message sent through a Web based e mail service like Google s Gmail service or Microsoft s Hotmail service or another such service and the communication received at step may be a targeted advertisement presented as part of the returned Web page. In such an embodiment the category of advertisement e.g. the company or type of product may be selected based on specific terms used in the e mail message and the language used may be based on or selected based on the neurolinguistically determined dominant cognitive motivation orientation expressed in the e mail message.

Consider a case where a user has entered the search term rain boots into an Internet search engine or the text scanning tool of a Web based e mail service has detected the phrase I need to buy new rain boots in an e mail message. This is sufficient to determine that an advertisement for rain boots should be presented to the user. A server system may store a plurality of different advertisements for rain boots from a particular manufacturer and automatically select which advertisement to present based on the neurolinguistically determined dominant cognitive motivation orientation set. For example the server may store advertisements which use specific language targeted to specific dominant cognitive motivation orientation sets as shown in the table below rather than all possible cognitive motivation orientation sets only certain exemplary dominant cognitive motivation orientation sets are shown for ease of illustration 

More details about the exemplary cognitive motivation orientations in the table above are provided below.

In addition to cases where a targeted advertisement is presented in response to a search term the content of an e mail message or another meaningful text sequence automatically selecting from a set of predetermined responses based on the result of automated neurolinguistic analysis of the first text sequence could be used where the first computer system is that of a customer or potential customer and the second computer system is that of a product or service provider. In these types of embodiments the communication received at step may be a canned advertisement offer or other commercial material selected by the second computer system because its language fits the neurolinguistically determined dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed within the first text sequence.

Alternatively the communication received at step may be an automatically dynamically generated response to the first text sequence based on the result of automated neurolinguistic analysis of the first text sequence. In such an embodiment the language used to build the dynamically generated response may be based on in which the language is selected based on the neurolinguistically determined dominant cognitive motivation orientation set.

Similarly to the method following step the method may then proceed to one or more of a number of possible steps.

At optional step A the method may communicate the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set to a user of the computer system executing the method in such an embodiment the communication received at step would identify the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set.

The method may proceed to optional step B to provide recommendations for preparation of a meaningful second text sequence such as an e mail text message letter or the like or for suggestions for a verbal communication addressing the first text sequence. In such embodiments the communication received at step could identify recommendations for a response to the first text sequence either by inclusion of those recommendations within the communication by use of a tag or code such as recommendation that designates one or more predefined or canned recommendations stored on the first computer system or the first computer system may determine which recommendation s to present based on the neurolinguistically determined first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set. In each case the recommendations identified by the communication received at step are based on the neurolinguistically determined first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set. Step A may be omitted and the method may proceed directly to step B to provide recommendations without explicitly identifying the first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set or steps A and B may proceed substantially in parallel.

The method may also proceed to step C to present information to a user of the first computer system. The nature of the information communicated will depend on the nature of the communication received at step . For example the communication may be search results an advertisement or other information.

Reference is now made to which is a flow chart showing at a high level a second exemplary computer implemented method for receiving an analysis of text. The method may be implemented by a first computer system that is in communication with a second computer system that is executing an embodiment of the method that includes steps B to . The method may be carried out independently or may be a continuation of the method and begin after step A or B. At step the first computer system transmits a meaningful first text sequence to the second computer system and at step the first computer system transmits a meaningful second text sequence to the second computer system. The first and second text sequences may be obtained for example using any of the techniques described above. As in the case of the method the first text sequence may be an e mail message a text message or a letter and the second text sequence may be an unsent e mail message text message or letter response to the first text sequence. Steps and may be performed in reverse sequence or substantially simultaneously. In a case where the method is a continuation of the method the first text sequence transmitted at step will typically be the same text sequence transmitted at step . As such in stateful embodiments step may be omitted when the first text sequence was already transmitted at step . After receiving the first and second text sequences sent by the first computer system at steps or and the second computer system may then for example execute an implementation of the method that includes steps B to . At step the first computer system receives from the second computer system a communication that is responsive both to the result of automated neurolinguistic analysis of the cognitive motivation orientations expressed in the first text sequence and to a result of automated neurolinguistic analysis of cognitive motivation orientations expressed in the second text sequence. The communication received at step may comprise statistical information representing cognitive motivation orientations expressed within the first and second text sequences which can be used by the first computer system to determine the dominant cognitive motivation orientation sets for the first and second text sequences or may comprise an identification of the neurolinguistically determined dominant cognitive motivation orientation sets expressed in the first and second text sequences. In either case the first computer system could then execute a test of fit between the neurolinguistically determined first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed within the first text sequence and a neurolinguistically determined second dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed within the second text sequence at optional step . Alternatively the communication received at step may be responsive to the outcome of a test of fit carried out by the second computer system between the neurolinguistically determined first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed within the first text sequence and a neurolinguistically determined second dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed within the second text sequence. In one embodiment the communication received at step identifies at least one recommendation for modifying the second text sequence so that the neurolinguistically determined second dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed in the second text sequence as modified fits the neurolinguistically determined first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set. As noted above the recommendations may be identified by inclusion in the communication received at step by use of a tag or code that designates one or more predefined or canned recommendations stored on the first computer system or the first computer system may determine the recommendations directly based the dominant cognitive motivation orientation sets.

After step or after step if present the method proceeds to step to present information to a user of the first computer system. The nature of the information communicated will depend on the nature of the communication received at step and whether step is present. For example at step the method may communicate the results of a test of fit between the first and second dominant cognitive motivation orientation sets either with or without recommendations for modifying the second text sequence.

Reference is now made to which shows exemplary computer systems and an exemplary network configuration which may be used in implementing the above described methods. In a server which may comprise a plurality of individual computers implements an embodiment of the method . A plurality of devices including one or more smartphones desktop computers laptop computers and tablet computers implement either the method or the method and communicate via a network in this case the Internet with the server . Each of the devices is a first computer system and the server is a second computer system and the devices can each transmit a communication containing a meaningful first text sequence as well as a second meaningful text sequence where the method is being implemented to the server for analysis. The server can transmit communications to the respective devices based on the analysis.

For example in one embodiment a network architecture as shown in can be used in association with an implementation of the method that includes steps B through on the server and an implementation of the method and or on any of the devices to analyze e mail messages. In this embodiment the methods and executed together would identify the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed in incoming emails explain them to the user provide recommendations for vocabulary to use and to avoid and then analyze the corresponding response in order to make sure that the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed in the response fits the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed in the incoming e mail message thereby improving the communication.

A plug in may be installed on an e mail client executing on any of the devices and configured to communicate via a secure connection with the server . A plug in is a piece of software which enhances another software application and usually cannot be run independently in this case the plug in integrates with the e mail client and executes an implementation of the method and the server executes software that implements an embodiment of the method . The plug in may for example provide one or more additional virtual buttons on the user interface for the e mail client which when activated trigger the method or . Preferably the server presents an application programming interface API that is supported across platforms so that different e mail clients on different devices can be supported. In one preferred embodiment communication between the devices and the server is stateless i.e. the server does not store information from nor does it correlate information to particular users. Thus where the method is a continuation of the method the first text sequence would be re sent at step even though it was already sent at step since it would not have been stored by the server. In other embodiments the communication may be stateful and step could be omitted. Communication between the devices and the server is preferably synchronous meaning that the response is received as the result of the client query. In a preferred embodiment the plug in facilitates communication between the devices and the server over the network using the Representational State Transfer REST framework which supports the HTTP transport protocol and encryption as it preferable for both client requests and server responses to be encrypted.

In one embodiment the server may be a different server from the server that administers the e mail system with which the e mail client is associated. For example the server may be the server of a third party service provider which provides the neurolinguistic analysis using a multi tenant Software as a Service SaaS architecture. Alternatively the server may be the same server that administers the e mail system with which the e mail client is associated.

The use of a plug in for the e mail client implements a thin client approach in which the plug in would carry out very little processing for example extracting the text sequence to be analyzed from the e mail. E mail messages often include information which is extraneous to the message text itself such as headers formatting such as bolding and italics and non text elements such as images and attachments. Moreover an e mail message may also include quoted text from previous e mail messages which generally should not be included in the text to be analyzed. Thus in one embodiment the plug in for the e mail client would extract the text sequence to be analyzed from the e mail in a manner which excludes extraneous information and quoted text leaving only plain text. In an embodiment that implements the method the plug in may extract both the text of the unsent response as well as the first level of quoted text which would be the e mail to which the unsent response is responsive. Where an e mail message is forwarding another e mail message the e mail client may provide a choice as to whether to analyze the forwarded e mail message or the added text. Thus the e mail client may send a text sequence representing the content of an e mail that has been received two text sequences representing the content of an unsent response and the content of the e mail to which the unsent response is responsive or a text sequence representing an unsent e mail that is not responsive to any other e mail.

In one embodiment in which the method and the methods and or are used to analyze e mail after carrying out step and if applicable step the server sends a response to the e mail client that includes one or more numerical values for one or more corresponding cognitive motivation orientations. Numerical values may be provided for all cognitive motivation orientations tested or only for those determined to be dominant. The numerical values will indicate the relative rankings of the cognitive motivation orientations and can be used by the e mail client to identify the most dominant cognitive motivation orientations. In this embodiment the response sent by the server to the e mail client may also include explanation text regarding the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set s and in the case of the method recommendation text for adjusting a reply e mail. The explanation text and recommendation text may be provided in a single format or in both a short format and a longer more detailed format. In other embodiments the explanation text and recommendation text may be stored locally by the e mail client. In either case the e mail client can use the numerical values to determine the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set s and select the appropriate explanation text and recommendation text where applicable. In an embodiment in which the explanation and recommendation text is stored locally the server may send an identifier such as an alphanumeric identifier of the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set s and the e mail client can select which unit of explanation text or recommendation text to present based on that identifier. In still other embodiments the server may send only the specific explanation text and recommendation text in the case of the method applicable to dominant cognitive motivation orientation set s determined by the server . In yet further embodiments the server may send the statistical information required for the device to determine the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set s . The server can also send data representing a confidence value such as a percentage indicating the degree of confidence in the determination that each cognitive motivation orientation in the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set is in fact dominant.

Thus in an embodiment which analyzes e mail a user of the e mail client can request analysis of an e mail which may be a received e mail an unsent reply to a received e mail or an unsent e mail that does not reply to another e mail. The e mail client can then provide to the user explanations of the dominant cognitive motivation orientation s in the e mail s for example as prefabricated text in a pop up window. For a received e mail the e mail client can provide recommendations for preparing a response expressing a dominant cognitive motivation orientation set that will match the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed in the received e mail. For an unsent reply to a received e mail the e mail client can provide recommendations for modifying the unsent reply based on a comparison of the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed in the received e mail to the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed in the unsent reply these recommendations may also be provided as prefabricated text in a pop up window. A user can repeatedly iterate the method as they modify the unsent response to the e mail to see whether the response is improving. In a preferred embodiment when a user activates the send function for an unsent e mail reply the e mail client can check whether the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the unsent reply has been checked for fit with the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set of the original e mail and provide a confirmation window if it has not e.g. are you sure you want to send this reply without checking for fit . Confidence values for the cognitive motivation orientations in the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set may also be displayed by the e mail client. For example an average of the confidence values for each of the cognitive motivation orientations in the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set may be presented graphically as a bar which may include red yellow and green portions corresponding to increasing levels of confidence.

In a client server embodiment such as that shown in the server may also gather and correlate information about relating to cognitive motivation orientations with various other data items. For example the server may determine the frequency with which various cognitive motivation orientations or cognitive motivation orientation sets occur within a given geographic location or within specific demographic groups.

In addition to the thin client approach described above in the context of the method may be implemented on the same computer system as the methods and or .

At step the method receives a meaningful first text sequence. This step corresponds to step of the method . For example in an e mail embodiment the first text sequence received at step may be the extracted message content of a received e mail or an unsent e mail in plain text form.

At step the method derives first text sequence n grams from the first text sequence. In the exemplary embodiment the first text sequence n grams consist of all possible n grams in the first text sequence. An n gram is a contiguous sub sequence of n items from a given sequence and in the context of a text sequence may be phonemes syllables letters or words. In a presently preferred embodiment the items are words and n grams of one word a unigram two words a bigram and three words a trigram . In other embodiments longer or shorter n grams may be used. In a current embodiment n gram derivation is based on an interval a b and thus all n grams of size a a 1 a 2 . . . b are derived. In a presently preferred embodiment the interval is 1 3 although this interval is configurable. Derivation of word n grams may be facilitated by tokenizing the first text sequence. The term tokenizing refers to a process in which a sequence of characters such as ASCII characters is divided into a sequence of individual tokens such as words. Techniques for tokenizing and for extracting n grams from a sequence of tokens are well known in the field of computer science and are not discussed further here. By tokenizing the first text sequence into a sequence of words and then iterating over that sequence of words all of the word unigrams word bigrams and word trigrams can be identified. For example if the first text sequence is I don t want to go there step would derive the following first text sequence n grams I I don t I don t want don t don t want don t want to want want to want to go to to go to go there go go there and there . The method can handle emoticons by treating the emoticons as words the tokenization process would be adapted so that the characters building an emoticon are grouped into a single token.

At step the method advances to the next or first first text sequence n gram and then moves to step . At step the method compares the current first text sequence n gram to a plurality of predetermined indicator n grams to see if the current first text sequence n gram matches one of the predetermined indicator n grams. Each of the predetermined indicator n grams is associated with at least one cognitive motivation orientation and each predetermined indicator n gram has for each cognitive motivation orientation with which it is associated a corresponding cognitive motivation orientation confidence weight. In a presently preferred embodiment each predetermined indicator n grams is associated with exactly one cognitive motivation orientation. In alternate embodiments some predetermined indicator n grams may be associated with more than one cognitive motivation orientation with a different cognitive motivation orientation confidence weight for each cognitive motivation orientation with which it is associated. A flexible data structure could provide a cognitive motivation orientation confidence weight variable for each possible cognitive motivation orientation with the variable set to zero for cognitive motivation orientations with which the respective predetermined indicator n gram is not associated. In a presently preferred embodiment the predetermined indicator n grams are stored in a specially formatted text file other file types may also be used to store the predetermined indicator n grams for example a relational database.

At step responsive to a determination at step that the current first text sequence n gram does not match any of the predetermined indicator n grams the method proceeds to step to check whether there are any additional first text sequence n grams that have not yet been compared. Responsive to a yes determination at step the method returns to step to advance to the next n gram.

Responsive to a determination at step that the current first text sequence n gram matches one of the predetermined indicator n grams at step the method records the corresponding cognitive motivation orientation confidence weight for each cognitive motivation orientation associated with that predetermined indicator n gram. In the illustrated embodiment recording the cognitive motivation orientation confidence weight is accomplished by at step incrementing a corresponding first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight score for each cognitive motivation orientation associated with that predetermined indicator n gram according to the corresponding cognitive motivation orientation confidence weight. In a presently preferred embodiment in which each predetermined indicator n gram is associated with exactly one cognitive motivation orientation step will increment the first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight score for the cognitive motivation orientation associated with the predetermined indicator n gram that matches the current first text sequence n gram. After step the method proceeds to step to check whether there are any additional first text sequence n grams that have not yet been compared.

If the method determines at step that there are no more first text sequence n grams that have not yet been compared that is that all of the first text sequence n grams have been checked against the plurality of predetermined indicator n grams this means that the method has determined the raw first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight scores for each cognitive motivation orientation. Further processing of the raw first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight scores may be carried out on the same computer system that calculated them or the raw first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight scores may be sent to another computer system for further processing.

Other techniques may be used for recording the corresponding cognitive motivation orientation confidence weight for each cognitive motivation orientation associated with a predetermined indicator n gram matching the current n gram. For example in an embodiment in which processing is divided across two or more computer systems one computer system may annotate the first text sequence with the n grams that matched a predetermined indicator n gram being annotated with the corresponding cognitive motivation orientation confidence weights. Once all n grams have been examined the annotated first text sequence could then be sent to another computer system which could extract the annotated cognitive motivation orientation confidence weights to obtain the raw first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight scores for further processing for example in accordance with subsequent steps of the method .

The raw first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight scores will depend on the size of the first text sequence and therefore following a determination at step that all of the first text sequence n grams have been checked against the predetermined indicator n grams the method then proceeds to step where the method normalizes the first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight scores to obtain normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight scores. The first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight scores may be normalized for example by dividing each first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight score by the number of tokens in the first text sequence. Other normalization procedures may also be used. The method then proceeds to step .

Each of the cognitive motivation orientations which the method detects will have a corresponding normalized dominance threshold which serves as a boundary for determining whether or not that cognitive motivation orientation is dominant for a particular text sequence. An exemplary method for building normalized dominance thresholds will be described below in the context of .

At step the method advances to the next or first normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight score and then to step to advance to the corresponding normalized dominance threshold. The method then proceeds to step and compares the current normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight score to the corresponding normalized dominance threshold to see whether the current normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight score exceeds the corresponding normalized dominance threshold. Equivalently depending on the value of the normalized dominance threshold step may test whether the current normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight score is equal to or greater than the corresponding normalized dominance threshold. Preferably where the current normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight score exceeds the corresponding normalized dominance threshold step will also determine and store the amount by which the current normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight score exceeds the corresponding normalized dominance threshold.

Responsive to a determination at step that the current normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight score exceeds the corresponding normalized dominance threshold the method proceeds to step . At step the method identifies the cognitive motivation orientation for the current normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight score as being a dominant cognitive motivation orientation for example by setting a flag. Where step also determines the amount by which the current normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight score exceeds the corresponding normalized dominance threshold storing a non zero value for this amount may serve to identify the relevant cognitive motivation orientation as dominant.

If method determines at step that the current normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight score does not exceed the corresponding normalized dominance threshold the method proceeds to step . At step the method identifies the cognitive motivation orientation for the current normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight score as being a non dominant cognitive motivation orientation. In an embodiment in which step also determines the amount by which the current normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight score exceeds the corresponding normalized dominance threshold in some embodiments storing a zero value or a negative value for this amount may serve to identify the relevant cognitive motivation orientation as non dominant.

After either of steps or the method proceeds to step to check whether there are any normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight scores that have not yet been compared against their corresponding normalized dominance threshold. Responsive to a yes determination at step the method returns to step to advance to the next or first normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight score. Responsive to a no determination at step meaning that all the normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight scores have been compared against their corresponding normalized dominance threshold the method proceeds to step .

At step the method ranks the dominant cognitive motivation orientations for the first text sequence according to the difference between each normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight scores and the respective corresponding normalized dominance threshold. To account for the different magnitudes of the normalized dominance threshold the ranking process includes a scaling step. In one embodiment each normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight score may be divided by its respective corresponding normalized dominance threshold with values below 1 indicating non dominance and values above 1 indicating dominance and the values can then be ranked. In another embodiment this scaling may be achieved by dividing the difference positive or negative between the normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight score and the corresponding normalized dominance threshold by the absolute value of the normalized dominance threshold. In a preferred embodiment each of the normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight scores is mapped to a range in which the respective normalized dominance threshold is set to zero. For example the respective normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight scores may be mapped according to a scaling in which the portion from zero to the corresponding normalized dominance threshold is mapped to normalized range of 100 to zero. The result is that normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight scores above zero indicate dominance and normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight scores equal to or below zero indicate non dominance. Following this scaling step the scaled normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight scores can be compared and ranked. The respective scaled normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight scores can also be used as a confidence value indicating the degree of confidence in the determination that the respective cognitive motivation orientation is dominant with the distance from zero representing the degree of confidence.

Although shows step as occurring before step in other embodiments the step of determining whether the current normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight score exceeds the corresponding normalized dominance threshold may occur after or substantially simultaneously with the step of ranking the dominant cognitive motivation orientations for the first text sequence. In certain embodiments steps through may be omitted because the ranking at will inherently distinguish non dominant cognitive motivation orientations from dominant cognitive motivation orientations. For example where the normalized cognitive motivation orientation weight scores are divided by their respective normalized dominance thresholds a value of 1 can be used to distinguish between dominant and non dominant cognitive motivation orientations with values below or equal to 1 indicating non dominance and values above 1 indicating dominance. Similarly where each of the normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight scores is mapped to a range in which the respective normalized dominance threshold is set to zero a negative or zero value will indicate non dominance and a positive value will indicate dominance.

Moreover an identification of the ranking of the cognitive motivation orientations may be sent to another computer system without determining which cognitive motivation orientations if any are dominant. For example the values used for the ranking may be sent in an ordered list or other suitable format to such other computer system the ranking of the cognitive motivation orientations will be inherent in the values used to rank them. The other computer system could use those values in conjunction with appropriate boundary values to determine which cognitive motivation orientations are dominant. The ranking values can also be used by the other computer system to select the m most dominant cognitive motivation orientations as described below. In one particularly preferred embodiment each of the normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight scores is mapped to a range in which the respective normalized dominance threshold is set to zero and the resulting values are sent to another computer system as an ordered list. For example a first computer system may execute the method and a second computer system may execute steps to possibly omitting steps to and then return the values resulting from step to the first computer system as an ordered list the ordered list would then be the communication received at step of the method . The order in which the values appear in the ordered list appear will follow a predetermined pattern so that the values can be associated with the corresponding cognitive motivation orientations. For example the first value in the list may correspond to the toward cognitive motivation orientation the second value may correspond to the away from cognitive motivation orientation the third value may correspond to the internal cognitive motivation orientation and so on. Steps and could then be carried out by the first computer system. More details about the foregoing cognitive motivation orientations are provided below.

After step the method then proceeds to step where the method selects the m highest ranked dominant cognitive motivation orientations as the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the first text sequence where m is a positive integer. In a presently preferred embodiment m 2 although other values of m may be used. Also in the presently preferred embodiment the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set contains the most dominant cognitive motivation orientations but the ranking of dominant cognitive motivation orientations within the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set is immaterial. In such an embodiment where the number of cognitive motivation orientations is identified as dominant by steps through is less than or equal to m steps and are reduced to triviality and may be omitted optionally an intermediate step testing for this condition may be interposed after step to permit steps and to be bypassed where appropriate. In other embodiments the ranking of dominant cognitive motivation orientations within the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set may be relevant for subsequent processing and as such steps and would only be bypassed if at all where only a single cognitive motivation orientation or no cognitive motivation orientation was identified as dominant.

The result of the method following step or at the completion of all iterations of steps to if steps and are bypassed is a dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the first text sequence which contains either the m most dominant of the cognitive motivation orientations that were identified as dominant or if fewer than m cognitive motivation orientations were identified as dominant all of the cognitive motivation orientations that were identified as dominant. If no cognitive motivation orientations were identified as dominant the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set will be null or empty. As noted above a presently preferred value for m is 2. Accordingly steps through or if steps and are bypassed are an exemplary procedure for using the recorded cognitive motivation orientation confidence weights for the first text sequence which are obtained by steps through to determine a first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed in the first text sequence. Following step or at the completion of all iterations of steps to if steps and are bypassed the method has transformed the meaningful text sequence received at step into actionable information about the dominant cognitive motivation orientation s of the author of that text sequence.

In some embodiments steps to step or steps through the final iteration of step if steps and are bypassed may be used to identify a dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the first text communication for purposes other than comparing it to the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for a second text sequence. For example steps and of the method may be implemented using this portion of the method and the method could then proceed to step A to communicate the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set determined at step to step C to automatically select a predetermined response to the first text sequence from a set of predetermined responses based on the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed within the first text sequence or to step D to automatically dynamically generate a response to the first text sequence based on the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed within the first text sequence.

Following step the method proceeds to optional step where the method provides recommendations for preparation of a meaningful second text sequence addressing the first text sequence. The recommendations provided at step are based on the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set determined at step or at the completion of all iterations of steps to if steps and are bypassed . Step may be executed in all cases or only in response to input from a user or another computer system requesting the recommendations. The recommendations may be predefined or canned recommendations and the appropriate recommendations may be retrieved from a lookup table based on the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set. Alternatively the recommendations may be dynamically generated based on the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set. The recommendations provided at step may be presented on a display of the computer system implementing the method or may be transmitted to another computer system. Alternatively step may transmit to another computer system an identification of the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the first text sequence or of the recommendations to be presented and that other computer can retrieve the appropriate recommendations either from local or distributed storage. In some embodiments at step identification of both the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the first text sequence and of recommendations may be transmitted.

Following step or step if step is omitted the method proceeds to step . At step the method receives a meaningful second text sequence that addresses the first text sequence. For example where the first text sequence is an e mail message the second text sequence may be an e mail response to the first text sequence that has been entered into the e mail client but not yet sent to the person who sent the first e mail.

Following step the method then proceeds to steps through . At steps through the method derives second text sequence n grams from the second text sequence and compares the second text sequence n grams to the plurality of predetermined indicator n grams. For each second text sequence n gram matching a predetermined indicator n gram the method records the corresponding cognitive motivation orientation confidence weight for each cognitive motivation orientation associated with that predetermined indicator n gram and the method uses the recorded cognitive motivation orientation confidence weights for the second text sequence to determine a second dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed in the second text sequence. Steps through correspond to steps through respectively except that steps through are performed on the second text sequence rather than the first text sequence. Accordingly a detailed discussion of steps through is omitted in the interest of brevity. It should be noted that step preferably uses the same value of m as does step .

In the exemplary method determination of the first and second dominant cognitive motivation orientations is based on statistical information derived from the appearance of particular indicator n grams in the first and second text sequences and the weight that those indicator n grams carry as markers of particular cognitive motivation orientations as determined from annotated training data as described further below . As such complicated morphological syntactic and semantic analysis is avoided. Moreover the analysis is substantially indifferent to the substantive meaning of the text sequence.

At the conclusion of step or at the completion of all iterations of steps to if steps and are bypassed the method will have obtained a dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the first text sequence and a dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the second text sequence. Thus following step or at the completion of all iterations of steps to if steps and are bypassed the method has transformed the meaningful text sequence received at step into actionable information about the dominant cognitive motivation orientation s of the author of that text sequence again as expressed in the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set.

At step the method tests whether the second dominant cognitive motivation orientation set fits the first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set. The precise nature of the test will depend on the categories of cognitive motivation orientations exemplary rules for such a test are described below.

At step responsive to a determination at step that the second dominant cognitive motivation orientation set fits the first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set the method confirms the fit at step and then ends. Confirming the fit may be done for example by presenting the confirmation on a display of the computer system implementing the method or by transmitting the confirmation to another computer system.

At step responsive to a determination at step that the second dominant cognitive motivation orientation set misfits the first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set the method identifies the misfit and then proceeds to step . The identification of the misfit may optionally be presented on a display of the computer system implementing the method or transmitted to another computer system. At step responsive to identifying the misfit the method provides recommendations for modifying the second text sequence to fit the second dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the modified second text sequence to the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the first text sequence after which the method ends. At optional step the method calculates a fit score representing the degree of fit between the second dominant cognitive motivation orientation set and the first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set. Detailed discussion of an exemplary method for calculating a fit score is provided below in the context of in general a fit score may be calculated based on how close the second dominant cognitive motivation orientation set is to an ideal dominant cognitive motivation orientation set given the first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set. Steps through can be repeated for a modified second text sequence e.g. one that has been modified based on the recommendations at step . The fit score may provide a finer resolution than the fits or misfits test at step and therefore can provide a measurement of whether the modifications have brought the second dominant cognitive motivation orientation set closer to matching the first dominant cognitive motivation orientation set.

The exemplary method shows for ease of illustration a stateful embodiment in which the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the first text sequence may be stored so that it can be used in response to a subsequent query. Specifically steps to may be executed in response to a query seeking identification of the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the first text sequence or recommendations for preparing a meaningful second text sequence that addresses the first text sequence or both. The dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the first text sequence may be stored at or immediately following step or at or immediately following the completion of all iterations of steps to if steps and are bypassed so that it can be used in response to a subsequent query. As a result when the method receives query seeking a comparison of the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the first text sequence to the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for a meaningful second text sequence that addresses the first text sequence at step it is only necessary to execute steps to to determine the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the second text sequence. The dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the second text sequence can then be compared to the stored dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the first text sequence. Thus steps to need not be repeated and duplicative processing is avoided.

In an alternative stateless embodiment the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the first text sequence is not stored for use in response to a subsequent query. In a stateless embodiment a query seeking identification of the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the first text sequence or recommendations for preparing a meaningful second text sequence that addresses the first text sequence or both would trigger processing of steps to only after which the method would end. In a stateless embodiment of the method a query seeking a comparison of the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the first text sequence to the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for a meaningful second text sequence that addresses the first text sequence would include both the first text sequence and the second text sequence. In response to this query steps to or would be executed with step being omitted and the dominant cognitive motivation orientation sets for the first text sequence and the second text sequence would be discarded after step or . In a particular embodiment steps to and steps to may proceed substantially in parallel. In a manner similar to that described above in the context of steps to steps to and to may be omitted where the dominance determination is inherent in the ranking carried out at steps and and an identification of the ranking may be sent to another computer system for further processing. For example the values used for the ranking for each of the first text sequence and the second text sequence may be sent in an ordered list. The first value in the list may correspond to the toward cognitive motivation orientation for the first text sequence and the second value may correspond to the toward cognitive motivation orientation for the second text sequence the third value in the list may correspond to the away from cognitive motivation orientation for the first text sequence and the fourth value in the list may correspond to the away from cognitive motivation orientation for the second text sequence and so on. Alternatively two ordered lists may be used. A first computer system may execute the method and a second computer system may execute steps to possibly omitting steps to and to possibly omitting steps to and then return the values resulting from steps and to the first computer system. The first computer system could then carry out steps and and to .

In some embodiments the method may incorporate a length test for the first text sequence and the second text sequence where applicable and if the text sequence is too short to analyze accurately the method may return a suitable error message such as The message is too short to analyze. In cases where the first text sequence is too short to analyze accurately but the second text sequence is long enough for accurate analysis the method may simply analyze the second text sequence in isolation as if it were a first text sequence.

Similarly longer text sequences will require more processing resources so in some embodiments a length limit may be imposed on the text sequences. For example in an e mail analysis embodiment using a client server architecture as described above and shown in the e mail client may send only the first k characters of each text sequence where k is a positive integer of suitable size and where the size k is exceeded notify the user that only the first k characters will be analyzed. The method may also carry out an initial length test and reject text sequences exceeding k characters.

In certain embodiments the cognitive motivation orientations used are selected from the meta programs identified in the field of neurolinguistics. Table 1 below lists examples of cognitive motivation orientations along with a brief description language which indicates the presence of that cognitive motivation orientation indicator language as well as examples of language to use and to avoid when seeking to influence a person for whom that cognitive motivation orientation is dominant in a given context 

The Language to Use and Language to Avoid boxes in the table above each provide a short exemplary list which illustrates the types of phrases which should be used and avoided respectively in the second text sequence when a particular cognitive motivation orientation is part of the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set expressed in the first text sequence. The information in the table above can thus be used for example to generate recommendations either predefined canned or dynamically for modifying the second text sequence to fit the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the second text sequence to the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the first text sequence. One skilled in the art now informed by the present disclosure can expand upon the exemplary Language to Use and Language to Avoid with different words and phrases having similar meanings.

In one particular embodiment the cognitive motivation orientations which the method as exemplified by the method detects are toward away from internal external options and procedures . Table 2 below is a correspondence table illustrating exemplary mappings between the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set determined for the first text sequence and the ideal dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the second text sequence for such an embodiment in which m the number of most dominant cognitive motivation orientations included in the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set is equal to 2 at least for the dominant cognitive motivation orientation for the first text sequence. In the cells underneath each cognitive motivation orientation under the heading Ideal dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for second text sequence a y means that cognitive motivation orientation must be dominant an n means that cognitive motivation orientation must not be dominant and an i indicates that the ideal dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the second text sequence is indifferent to whether that cognitive motivation orientation is dominant or non dominant.

It should be noted that while certain rows in the above table may appear to be contradictory for example where toward and away from are identified as the two most dominant cognitive motivation orientations this merely indicates that within that context the individual who composed the relevant text sequence is in the middle of the continuum or is equally motivated by both.

Table 2 above identifies certain exemplary dominant cognitive motivation orientation sets but is not intended to limit the application of the systems methods and computer program products to dominant cognitive motivation orientation sets formed by a combination of those cognitive motivation orientations and the systems methods and computer program products can be extended to encompass a wide variety of cognitive motivation orientations including other cognitive motivation orientations listed in Table 1.

The rules shown in the above table can be used to determine for example at step of the method or step of the method whether the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the second text sequence fits or misfits the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the first text sequence. Where the current dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the second text sequence is the ideal dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the second text sequence the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the second text sequence fits the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the first text sequence. Conversely where the current dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the second text sequence differs from the ideal dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the second text sequence the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the second text sequence misfits the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the first text sequence.

The table above illustrates the following rules for testing whether the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the second text sequence fits the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the first text sequence 

Thus step may compare the current second dominant cognitive motivation orientation set to the ideal dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the second text sequence as set out in Table 2 above.

Reference is now made to which shows an exemplary method for calculating a fit score. In summary the fit score is the sum of certain calculated values derived from the normalized cognitive motivation orientation weight scores for each cognitive motivation orientation in the second dominant cognitive motivation orientation set that must be dominant or must be non dominant in the ideal dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the second text sequence. Where a cognitive motivation orientation that must be dominant in the ideal dominant cognitive motivation orientation set is dominant in the second dominant cognitive motivation orientation set and when a cognitive motivation orientation that must not be dominant in the ideal dominant cognitive motivation orientation set is non dominant in the second dominant cognitive motivation orientation set a maximum value will be contributed to the fit score. Where a cognitive motivation orientation that must be dominant in the ideal dominant cognitive motivation orientation set is non dominant in the second dominant cognitive motivation orientation set and when a cognitive motivation orientation that must not be dominant in the ideal dominant cognitive motivation orientation set is dominant in the second dominant cognitive motivation orientation set the contribution to the fit score will be based on how far away the normalized cognitive motivation orientation weight score for that cognitive motivation orientation is from being dominant or non dominant respectively. Normalized cognitive motivation orientation weight scores for cognitive motivation orientations to which the ideal dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the second text sequence is indifferent are not included in the calculation.

In a preferred embodiment the fit score has a maximum value of 100 and each cognitive motivation orientation that must be dominant or must be non dominant in the ideal dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the second text sequence can contribute a maximum value equal to 100 divided by the number of cognitive motivation orientations that must be dominant or must be non dominant in the ideal dominant cognitive motivation orientation set. For example if there are three cognitive motivation orientations that must be dominant and one cognitive motivation orientation that must be non dominant each cognitive motivation orientation can contribute a maximum of 25 to the fit score 100 4 25 and if there are two cognitive motivation orientations that must be dominant and one cognitive motivation orientation that must be non dominant each cognitive motivation orientation can contribute a maximum of 33.33 to the fit score 100 3 33.33 . If there is one cognitive motivation orientation that must be dominant and no cognitive motivation orientations that must not be dominant that single cognitive motivation orientation would contribute a maximum of 100 to the fit score 100 1 100 . In the preferred embodiment described in the context of and the method the respective normalized first text sequence cognitive motivation orientation weight scores are mapped according to a scaling in which the portion from zero to the corresponding normalized dominance threshold is mapped to normalized range of 100 to zero so that zero serves as the boundary between dominant and non dominant as described above.

At step the method checks whether there are any more dominant cognitive motivation orientations in the ideal dominant cognitive motivation orientation set. Responsive to a yes at step the method proceeds to step and advances to the next or first cognitive motivation orientation that must be dominant in the ideal dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the second text sequence. At step the method checks whether that same cognitive motivation orientation is dominant in the second dominant cognitive motivation orientation set. A yes determination at step indicates that that cognitive motivation orientation is dominant when it is supposed to be and the method proceeds to step and increases the fit score by the maximum and then returns to step . Responsive to a no determination at step indicating that the cognitive motivation orientation is not dominant when it should be the method proceeds to step .

At step the method compares the magnitude of the scaled normalized cognitive motivation orientation weight score to a limit value. Although the boundary between dominant and non dominant is set at zero for the scaled normalized cognitive motivation orientation weight scores the magnitude of the distance of a scaled normalized cognitive motivation orientation weight score from the boundary is relevant. For example scaled normalized cognitive motivation orientation weight scores of 70 and 2 both indicate non dominance but the latter is much closer to being dominant than the former. A slight improvement e.g. an increase of 5 to a scaled normalized cognitive motivation orientation weight score of 2 might make the corresponding cognitive motivation orientation dominant whereas the same magnitude of improvement to a scaled normalized cognitive motivation orientation weight score of 70 would make very little difference. The limit value is selected as the magnitude from the zero boundary where improvements to the scaled normalized cognitive motivation orientation weight score begin to have a significant effect and therefore should be taken into account in calculating the fit score. In a preferred embodiment the limit value is 30 although other limit values may also be used.

Accordingly at step the method tests whether the scaled normalized cognitive motivation orientation weight score for the current cognitive motivation orientation is less than 1 multiplied by the limit value. Since at step the method is handling a case where the current cognitive motivation orientation should be dominant but is not the scaled normalized cognitive motivation orientation weight score is negative and the limit value is multiplied by 1 for the comparison. If the scaled normalized cognitive motivation orientation weight score for the current cognitive motivation orientation is less than 1 multiplied by the limit value yes at step the method proceeds to step and sets a dominance value used in calculating the fit score equal to 1 multiplied by the limit value. If the scaled normalized cognitive motivation orientation weight score for the current cognitive motivation orientation is greater than or equal to 1 multiplied by the limit value no at step then the dominance value is set equal to the scaled normalized cognitive motivation orientation weight score for the current cognitive motivation orientation at step . In other embodiments if the dominance value is initialized to the scaled normalized cognitive motivation orientation weight score for the current cognitive motivation orientation step may be omitted.

After either step or the method proceeds to step where the method increases the fit score according the formula maximum 1 dominance value 1 limit value . Where the dominance value was set equal to 1 multiplied by the limit value the formula reduces to zero in other cases the amount by which the fit score is increased will be positive and will be greater the closer the normalized cognitive motivation orientation weight score is to zero. After step the method returns to step to check whether there are any more dominant cognitive motivation orientations in the ideal dominant cognitive motivation orientation set.

Responsive to a no at step indicating that all of the cognitive motivation scores that must be dominant in the ideal dominant cognitive motivation orientation set have been considered the method proceeds to step to check whether there are any more cognitive motivation orientations that must be non dominant in the ideal dominant cognitive motivation orientation set.

Responsive to a yes at step at step the method advances to the next or first cognitive motivation orientation that must be non dominant in the ideal dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for the second text sequence and then at step the method checks whether that same cognitive motivation orientation is dominant in the second dominant cognitive motivation orientation set. A no determination at step indicates that that cognitive motivation orientation is non dominant in the second cognitive motivation orientation set as in the ideal dominant cognitive motivation orientation set so the method proceeds to step and increases the fit score by the maximum and then returns to step . Responsive to a yes determination at step indicating that the cognitive motivation orientation is dominant when it should not be dominant the method proceeds to step .

At step the method tests whether the scaled normalized cognitive motivation orientation weight score for the current cognitive motivation orientation exceeds the limit value. At step the method is handling a case where the current cognitive motivation orientation is dominant when it should not be so the scaled normalized cognitive motivation orientation weight score is positive. If the scaled normalized cognitive motivation orientation weight score for the current cognitive motivation orientation exceeds the limit value yes at step the method proceeds to step and sets the dominance value used in calculating the fit score equal to the limit value. If the scaled normalized cognitive motivation orientation weight score for the current cognitive motivation orientation is less than or equal to the limit value no at step then at step the dominance value is set equal to the scaled normalized cognitive motivation orientation weight score for the current cognitive motivation orientation.

After either step or the method proceeds to step where the method increases the fit score according the formula maximum 1 dominance value limit value . Where the dominance value was set equal to the limit value the formula reduces to zero in other cases the amount by which the fit score is increased will be greater the closer the normalized cognitive motivation orientation weight score is to zero. After step the method returns to step to check whether there are any more cognitive motivation orientations that must not be dominant in the ideal dominant cognitive motivation orientation set. Responsive to a no determination at step indicating that the method has considered all cognitive motivation orientations that must be dominant or must not be dominant in the ideal cognitive motivation orientation set i.e. all non indifferent cognitive motivation orientations the method ends.

The method is merely one example of a method for calculating a fit score other methods may also be used.

Reference is now made to which is a flow chart showing an exemplary method for building an analysis database associating n grams with cognitive motivation orientations. A database built according to the method shown in may provide the plurality of predetermined indicator n grams used at steps and of the method shown in .

At step the method receives a training corpus comprising a plurality of training documents. The training documents may consist of a variety of types of document in electronic form including e mail message bodies letter contents text message contents essays news articles and so on. For documents that did not originate in electronic form the documents may be manually retyped scanned using OCR technology or otherwise converted into electronic form. The training documents may be general in nature covering a range of subject matter or may be specialized training documents associated with particular fields. For example to build an analysis database useful for analyzing communications between lawyers the training documents could come from e mails letters and text messages between lawyers or between lawyers and their clients legal agreements or court documents. Similarly suitably selected training documents may be used to build analysis databases for other fields or professions such as medicine or accounting or for particular business areas such as manufacturing consulting human resources or marketing.

Each of the training documents comprises a plurality of meaningfully arranged words. These words may include emoticons and informal abbreviations such as 18r meaning later ttyl meaning talk to you later and ROTFL meaning rolling on the floor laughing as well as well defined dictionary words. In addition the words in the training documents may include common grammar and spelling errors. Each of the training documents has at least one annotated word sequence of one or more words therein and each of these annotated word sequences is annotated with a corresponding word sequence level annotation identifying at least one cognitive motivation orientation associated with that annotated word sequence. For example the word sequence find a way around it may be annotated with a word sequence level annotation identifying the options cognitive motivation orientation as being associated with that word sequence and the word sequence what I don t want to happen is may be annotated with a word sequence level annotation identifying the away from cognitive motivation orientation as being associated with that word sequence. Typically the word sequence level annotations would be based on an identification of the association between the relevant word sequence and the cognitive motivation orientation by a human individual skilled in the field of neurolinguistics. Examples of such associations can be seen in the Indicator Language column in Table 1 above some of the cells of which include word sequences which indicate and hence are associated with the cognitive motivation association for the row in which that cell is found. Annotation may be carried out for example using a modified version of the MMAX2 annotation tool the current open source release of MMAX2 is available at http sourceforge.net projects mmax2 files .

In a case where a word sequence is associated with more than one cognitive motivation orientation that word sequence may have a single annotation identifying each cognitive motivation orientation with which it is associated or may have one annotation for each such cognitive motivation orientation.

At step the method advances to the next or first training document and then advances to the next or first unexamined annotated word sequence in the current training document at step .

At step the method extracts n grams overlapping the current annotated word sequence. In particular at step for each positive integer n where 0

After step the method proceeds to step . At step for each n gram extracted at step and associated with the cognitive motivation orientation s associated with the current annotated word sequence at step the method increments a respective counter. The counter records the number of times that the n gram appears in the training corpus in association with the cognitive motivation orientation s with which it was associated at step . Thus there will be one counter for each n gram cognitive motivation orientation pair and the counter will be incremented each time the method identifies at steps to another instance where the n gram appears in the training corpus in association with that cognitive motivation orientation. In one implementation step may comprise first checking for an existing counter for a particular n gram cognitive motivation orientation pair. If an existing counter for that n gram cognitive motivation orientation pair is found the counter would be incremented by 1 if no such counter yet exists the counter would be created and initialized at a value of 1. The information contained in the counters may be utilized later in applying one or more relevance filters step and in assigning confidence weights step as described further below.

While shows the method first extracting all n grams overlapping the current annotated word sequence step then associating all of the extracted n grams with the appropriate cognitive motivation orientation step and then incrementing the respective counters this is merely illustrative of one exemplary implementation. For example the method may equivalently be performed with steps and executing substantially simultaneously such as by associating each extracted n gram with the cognitive motivation orientation and incrementing the counter immediately following extraction thereof.

To facilitate extraction of the n grams step the training documents are preferably tokenized into words as the first stage in the annotation process. Thus in a preferred embodiment the training documents are created by annotating token sequences and annotations will start and end at token borders.

After each iteration of steps and the method proceeds to step to check whether there are more unexamined annotated word sequences in the current training document. Responsive to a determination that there are more unexamined annotated word sequences in the current training document yes at step the method returns to step to advance to the next unexamined annotated word sequence. If the method determines at step that there are no more unexamined annotated word sequences in the current training document i.e. because all annotated word sequences have been examined no at step the method proceeds to step to check if there are more training documents to be handled. If there are additional training documents that have not yet been handled yes at step the method returns to step to advance to the next training document. If the method determines at step that there are no more training documents i.e. all training documents in the training corpus have been handled no at step the method proceeds to step .

Following completion of the last iteration of steps through the method will have generated a plurality of indicator candidate n grams from the training corpus. At step the method applies at least one relevance filter to these indicator candidate n grams to obtain a set of indicator n grams. Exemplary relevance filters are described further below. Each of the indicator n grams resulting from application of the relevance filter s at step has as its associated cognitive motivation orientation the cognitive motivation orientation with which the corresponding indicator candidate n gram is most frequently associated. At step the method assigns a confidence weight to each indicator n gram an exemplary method for assigning a confidence weight is described further below.

While shows the method first obtaining the set of indicator n grams step and then assigning a confidence weight to each indicator n gram step this is merely illustrative of one exemplary implementation. For example the method may equivalently be performed with steps and executing substantially simultaneously such as by assigning a confidence weight to each indicator n gram when it passes the relevance filter.

In a presently preferred embodiment the confidence weight assigned to a given indicator candidate n gram is equal to a the number of times that the respective indicator candidate n gram appears in the training corpus in association with the cognitive motivation orientation with which the corresponding indicator candidate n gram is most frequently associated divided by b the total number of times that the respective indicator candidate n gram appears in the training corpus. The count for component a of this calculation may be obtained using the relevant counter from step above and the count for component b of this calculation may be obtained using the counter from step of the method which as explained in more detail below is a particular implementation of step .

At step the method builds a normalized dominance threshold for each of the cognitive motivation orientations. Details of an exemplary procedure for building a normalized dominance threshold are described further below in the context of the method and . After step the method ends.

The result of the method is an analysis database associating n grams with cognitive motivation orientations with each n gram cognitive motivation orientation pair having a confidence weight indicating the strength of that n gram as an indicator indicator n gram of the presence of the associated cognitive motivation orientation. The analysis database also includes a normalized dominance threshold for each of the cognitive motivation orientations. By using an analysis database built according to the method a method such as the method can perform an objective statistical analysis of a text sequence based on empirical evidence of the outcome of the application of human expertise as reflected in the training corpus and tuning corpus. Thus the method effectively transforms a set of annotated documents that reflect the application of human expertise to specific cases word sequences as part of larger documents into a generalized computer usable repository of that human knowledge enabling a computer to directly apply that human knowledge for example by way of the method .

The database associating n grams with cognitive motivation orientations can be tested by applying the analysis method that uses the database e.g. the method in to a testing corpus of text sequences that are not annotated but for which the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set is known based on expert human analysis. The precision and recall of the system can be calculated. Precision refers to the proportion of the identified dominant patterns that are in fact dominant and recall describes the proportion of the dominant patterns that are actually retrieved. Precision and recall can be combined into a single value as a measure of overall system performance.

By adding more training documents tuning documents and re executing the method the analysis database may be incrementally improved. For example a server executing the method may with user consent and in compliance with all applicable laws including privacy laws be configured to store text sequences such as e mail message content. Those stored text sequences can then be annotated so as to become training documents and or tuning documents for use in a subsequent iteration of the method .

Reference is now made to which is a flow chart showing an exemplary method for applying a series of relevance filters to the indicator candidate n grams to obtain indicator n grams. Thus the method is an exemplary implementation of step of the method . The method makes use of the counters for each n gram cognitive motivation orientation pair described above in the context of step of the method .

At the first iteration of step the method advances to the first indicator candidate n gram. At step the method scans the training corpus for instances of the current n gram and counts those appearances. This step records the total number of times that the current n gram appears in the training corpus regardless of which cognitive motivation orientation s it is associated with by annotation and also includes instances where the n gram appears without being associated with any cognitive motivation orientation. Implementation of step is within the capability of one skilled in the art now informed by the present disclosure and hence details of the specific procedure for this step are omitted for brevity. Although counting of the total number of appearances of each n gram may be carried out at other stages of the method the embodiment shown in results in the training corpus being scanned only for n grams that are indicator candidate n grams. After step the method proceeds to step which applies a first relevance filter.

At step the method tests whether the number of times that the respective indicator candidate n gram appears in the training corpus in association with the cognitive motivation orientation with which the corresponding indicator candidate n gram is most frequently associated is less than a predetermined minimum multiple of a number of times that the respective indicator candidate n gram appears in the training corpus in association with the cognitive motivation orientation with which the corresponding indicator candidate n gram is second most frequently associated. For example consider a particular n gram in the training corpus that is most frequently associated in the with the toward cognitive motivation orientation and second most frequently associated with the procedures cognitive motivation orientation. If that n gram appears p times in association with the toward cognitive motivation orientation and q times in association with the procedures cognitive motivation orientation where the predetermined minimum multiple is r step will test whether p r q or the mathematical equivalent of whether p q r. Information about the frequency of associations may be obtained from the counters incremented at step of the method . A yes determination at step means that the current indicator candidate n gram has failed the first relevance filter and the method returns to step to check whether there are more indicator candidate n grams to examine. Thus the result of failing the first relevance filter a yes determination at step is the current indicator candidate n gram will be excluded from the set of indicator n grams. A no determination at step means that the current indicator candidate n gram has passed the first relevance filter and the method then proceeds to step .

At step the method tests whether the number of times that the respective indicator candidate n gram appears in the training corpus in association with the cognitive motivation orientation with which the corresponding indicator candidate n gram is most frequently associated is less than a predetermined minimum number. A yes determination at step means that the current indicator candidate n gram has failed the second relevance filter so the current indicator candidate n gram will be excluded from the set of indicator n grams and the method returns to step to check whether there are more indicator candidate n grams to examine. A no determination at step indicates that the current indicator candidate n gram has passed the second relevance filter and the method then proceeds to step .

At step the method tests whether the percentage of appearances of the respective indicator candidate n gram in the training corpus in association with the cognitive motivation orientation with which the corresponding indicator candidate n gram is most frequently associated is less than a predetermined minimum percentage of the total number of appearances of the respective indicator candidate n gram in the training corpus. A yes determination at step means that the current indicator candidate n gram has failed the third relevance filter and the method returns to step to check whether there are more indicator candidate n grams to examine. Thus the result of failing the third relevance filter a yes determination at step the current indicator candidate n gram will be excluded from the set of indicator n grams. A no determination at step means that the current indicator candidate n gram has passed the third and final relevance filter and the method then proceeds to step . At step the current indicator candidate n gram is added to the set of indicator n grams and the method returns to step to check whether there are more indicator candidate n grams to be filtered.

At step which is reached whenever an indicator candidate n gram fails a relevance test or passes all three relevance tests the method checks whether there are more indicator candidate n grams to be filtered. Responsive to a no determination which means that the relevance filter has been applied to all of the indicator candidate n grams the method ends i.e. step would end and the method would proceed to step . Responsive to a yes determination at step the method returns to step and advances to the next indicator candidate n gram at step and then proceeds to step .

Steps and may be carried out in any order. In alternative embodiments only one or two of the filters represented by steps and may be applied or different filters may be used.

At step the method receives a tuning corpus of tuning documents and at step tokenizes the tuning documents. Alternatively the tuning documents may be received in tokenized form.

Like the training documents the tuning documents may consist of a variety of types of document in electronic form including documents that did not originate in electronic form but have been converted to electronic form and may be general in nature or specialized to a particular field. Each tuning document in the tuning corpus comprises a plurality of meaningfully arranged words which as with the training documents may include not only well defined dictionary words but also emoticons and informal abbreviations.

Each tuning document has a respective document level annotation identifying a dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for that tuning document. Similarly to the training documents the document level annotation would be based on an identification by a person skilled in the field of neurolinguistics of the cognitive motivation orientation s that are most dominant in the document. Although it is preferable that the training corpus and the tuning corpus be two different groups of documents it is contemplated that there may be overlap between the training corpus and the tuning corpus and even that the training corpus and the tuning corpus may be identical. Where the training corpus and the tuning corpus are identical each document has at least one word sequence therein that is annotated with a corresponding word sequence level annotation identifying at least one cognitive motivation orientation associated with that annotated word sequence as well as an overall document level annotation identifying a dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for that document. In embodiments where the training corpus and the tuning corpus are identical steps and may be omitted since the documents will already have been received at step and will have been tokenized prior to step .

Steps through of the method obtain for each tuning document a document raw confidence weight score for each cognitive motivation orientation. As explained in greater detail below successive iterations of steps through will examine the n grams in each tuning document and identify each indicator n gram appearing in that tuning document. The n grams that are examined in the tuning documents are those whose sizes correspond to the sizes of the n grams extracted at step . Thus in one embodiment for the same value of x as used in step the successive iterations of steps through will examine the n grams in each tuning document for each positive integer n where 0

At step the method advances to the next or first tuning document and then at step counts the number of n grams in the current tuning document. Step is shown in its present position in the method for ease of illustration and may alternatively be carried out at other stages of the method . Following step at step the method indexes to the next or first indicator n gram and then at step indexes to the next n gram in the current tuning document. At step the method tests whether the current n gram in the current tuning document matches the current indicator n gram. Responsive to a yes determination at step at step the method increments the respective document raw confidence weight score s for the cognitive motivation orientation s associated with the current indicator n gram. The amount of the increment is equal to the confidence weight for the indicator n gram associated with that cognitive motivation orientation. Thus each time an indicator n gram is identified in a tuning document that tuning document s raw confidence weight score for the cognitive motivation orientation associated with the identified indicator n gram is incremented by the corresponding confidence weight. After incrementing the respective document raw confidence weight score s at step the method proceeds to step to check whether the end of the current tuning document has been reached. Responsive to a no determination at step indicating that the current n gram in the current tuning document does not match the current indicator n gram the method proceeds directly to step .

If at step the method determines that the end of the current tuning document has not yet been reached no at step the method returns to step and indexes to the next n gram in the current tuning document. If the method determines at step that the end of the current tuning document has been reached yes at step the method proceeds to step which checks if there are more indicator n grams for which the current tuning document is to be checked. Responsive to a yes determination at step the method proceeds to step to return to the beginning of the current tuning document and then returns to step to index to the next indicator n gram. If the method determines at step that there are no more indicator n grams for which the current tuning document is to be checked no at step the method proceeds to step to check if there are more tuning documents to examine. Responsive to a determination that there are more tuning documents to examine yes at step the method returns to step to advance to the next tuning document. Responsive to a determination that there are no more tuning documents to handle i.e. all tuning documents have been checked for indicator n grams no at step the method proceeds to step .

Steps through of the method implement a procedure in which the tuning documents are sequentially scanned for each indicator n gram in turn. This is merely one exemplary procedure other procedures may equivalently be used. For example tuning documents could be scanned by sequentially comparing each n gram in the tuning document to the list of indicator n grams.

At step the method normalizes the document raw confidence weight scores computed by step for each cognitive motivation orientation to obtain for each tuning document normalized document confidence weight scores for each cognitive motivation orientation. In a presently preferred embodiment the raw confidence weight scores are normalized by dividing the raw confidence weight scores by the number of tokens in the respective tuning document.

At step the method selects for each cognitive motivation orientation a normalized dominance threshold that minimizes the number of incorrectly classified tuning documents. A tuning document will be incorrectly classified with respect to a particular cognitive motivation orientation if one of the following conditions is met 

Conceptually for each cognitive motivation orientation the tuning documents are arranged from left to right in order of increasing normalized document confidence weight score as shown in the table below and then a cut is applied to divide the table into a left and a right side. A tuning document for which the cognitive motivation orientation being considered is dominant is correctly classified if it is on the right side of the cut and incorrectly classified if it is on the left side of the cut a tuning document for which the cognitive motivation orientation being considered is non dominant is correctly classified if it is on the left side of the cut and incorrectly classified if it is on the right side of the cut.

The normalized dominance threshold is assigned a value corresponding to the cut that produces the fewest incorrect classifications. In the exemplary case illustrated by the table above the normalized dominance threshold would be assigned a value between 20 and 45 since a cut between 20 and 45 produces the fewest errors specifically a single error by incorrectly classifying tuning document E . The choice of value between 20 and 45 is arbitrary given the above dataset since any value in that range greater than 20 and less than 45 will produce the same single error in a preferred embodiment the normalized dominance threshold is assigned a value equal to the midpoint between the normalized document confidence weight score immediately below the cut and the normalized document confidence weight score immediately above the cut. Thus for the above example the normalized dominance threshold would be assigned a value of 32.5 which could be rounded to 32 or 33.

Reference is now made to which is a flow chart showing an exemplary method for selecting a normalized dominance threshold for a particular cognitive motivation orientation. Thus step of the method can be implemented by executing the method for each cognitive motivation orientation.

At step the method sets an first interim normalized dominance threshold equal to the lowest normalized document confidence weight score. For the sample dataset above the first interim normalized dominance threshold would be set equal to 14 the normalized document confidence weight score from tuning document A. The method then proceeds to step to calculate the number of classification errors resulting from the first interim normalized dominance threshold. A classification error occurs where for a particular tuning document the normalized document confidence weight score for a cognitive motivation orientation a exceeds the interim normalized dominance threshold for that cognitive motivation orientation but the document level annotation for that tuning document does not identify that cognitive motivation orientation as being within the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for that tuning document or b does not exceed the interim normalized dominance threshold for that cognitive motivation orientation but the document level annotation for that tuning document identifies that cognitive motivation orientation as being within the dominant cognitive motivation orientation set for that tuning document. Initially the number of classification errors will be very high. Using the sample dataset above the calculation at step would show two classification errors namely tuning documents B and E.

After step the method proceeds to step and sets a second interim normalized dominance threshold equal to the next highest normalized document confidence weight score. Using the dataset above on the first iteration of step the second interim normalized dominance threshold would be set equal to 20 which is the normalized document confidence weight score for tuning document B. The method then proceeds to step to calculate the number of classification errors resulting from the second interim normalized dominance threshold. In this first iteration the calculation at step would show only a single classification error namely tuning document E.

The method then proceeds to step which compares the number of classification errors resulting from using the first interim normalized dominance threshold to the number of classification errors resulting from using the second interim normalized dominance threshold. If the number of classification errors resulting from using the second interim normalized dominance threshold is less than or equal to the number of classification errors resulting from using the first interim normalized dominance threshold yes at step this indicates that the second interim normalized dominance threshold is better than the first interim normalized dominance threshold and the method proceeds to step . Continuing to use the example dataset above since using the second interim normalized dominance threshold produced only a single error while using the first interim normalized dominance threshold produced two errors the method would proceed to step .

At step the method updates the first interim normalized dominance threshold by setting its value equal to the current value of the second interim normalized dominance threshold. Using the sample data the first interim normalized dominance threshold would be set equal to 20. The method then returns to step to set a new value of the second interim normalized dominance threshold equal to the next highest normalized document confidence weight score. Thus the value of the second interim normalized dominance threshold would be set equal to 45 based on the sample dataset above. It is not necessary to re execute step because the number of classification errors for the updated first interim normalized dominance threshold was already calculated at the previous iteration of step .

Steps through will continue to iterate to increase the second interim normalized dominance threshold to the next highest normalized document confidence weight score as long as each new second interim normalized dominance threshold produces fewer classification errors than that which preceded it. As the second interim normalized dominance threshold continues to increase it will eventually cease to produce fewer classification errors than the one that preceded it. This will result in a no determination at step indicating that the current second interim normalized dominance threshold produces no fewer classification errors than the previous second interim normalized dominance threshold whose value is now reflected in the first interim normalized dominance threshold. This means that further increases in the second interim normalized dominance threshold will not produce any improvements in the number of classification errors and the number of classification errors resulting from the value of the first interim normalized dominance threshold is at least as good as if not better than the number of classification errors resulting from the value of the second interim normalized dominance threshold. For example on the next iteration of steps through based on the sample dataset above it is determined that the second interim normalized dominance threshold of 45 produces two classification errors namely tuning documents C and E which is more than the single classification error produced by the first interim normalized dominance threshold of 20. This would produce a no at step .

Responsive to a no at step indicating that further increases in the second interim normalized dominance threshold will not produce any improvements in the number of classification errors the method proceeds to step to set the value of the final normalized dominance threshold for the cognitive motivation orientation equal to an arbitrary value between the first interim normalized dominance threshold and the second interim normalized dominance threshold such as the midpoint.

The exemplary systems and methods described herein are not limited to the English language and may be extended with suitable modification to other languages. By providing training and tuning documents in a new language the method can be used to build an analysis database associating n grams in that language with cognitive motivation orientations thereby enabling the methods and to be applied for example by implementation of the method to that new language. For strongly inflecting languages such as German a stemming process computation of word stems based on inflected word forms can be used to normalize words to their stem which is expected to lead to more reliable n gram counts. Other linguistic tools may also be used. An implementation of the methods and may be enabled to handle multiple languages through the use of language recognition software to identify whether any special language handling is to be applied such as stemming and to select the analysis database for that language.

Aspects of the present technology have been described above with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to various embodiments. In this regard the flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present technology. For instance each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the Figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. Some specific examples of the foregoing have been noted above but these noted examples are not necessarily the only such examples. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

It also will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

An illustrative computer system in respect of which the methods herein described may be implemented is presented as a block diagram in . The illustrative computer system is denoted generally by reference numeral and includes a display input devices in the form of keyboard A and pointing device B computer and external devices . While pointing device B is depicted as a mouse it will be appreciated that other types of pointing device may also be used.

The computer may contain one or more processors or microprocessors such as a central processing unit CPU . The CPU performs arithmetic calculations and control functions to execute software stored in an internal memory preferably random access memory RAM and or read only memory ROM and possibly additional memory . The additional memory may include for example mass memory storage hard disk drives optical disk drives including CD and DVD drives magnetic disk drives magnetic tape drives including LTO DLT DAT and DCC flash drives program cartridges and cartridge interfaces such as those found in video game devices removable memory chips such as EPROM or PROM emerging storage media such as holographic storage or similar storage media as known in the art. This additional memory may be physically internal to the computer or external as shown in or both.

The computer system may also include other similar means for allowing computer programs or other instructions to be loaded. Such means can include for example a communications interface which allows software and data to be transferred between the computer system and external systems and networks. Examples of communications interface can include a modem a network interface such as an Ethernet card a wireless communication interface or a serial or parallel communications port. Software and data transferred via communications interface are in the form of signals which can be electronic acoustic electromagnetic optical or other signals capable of being received by communications interface . Multiple interfaces of course can be provided on a single computer system .

Input and output to and from the computer is administered by the input output I O interface . This I O interface administers control of the display keyboard A external devices and other such components of the computer system . The computer also includes a graphical processing unit GPU . The latter may also be used for computational purposes as an adjunct to or instead of the CPU for mathematical calculations.

The various components of the computer system are coupled to one another either directly or by coupling to suitable buses.

The term computer system as used herein is not limited to any particular type of computer system and encompasses servers desktop computers laptop computers networked mobile wireless telecommunication computing devices such as smartphones tablet computers as well as other types of computer systems.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the technology described herein may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the technology described herein may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the presently described technology may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s carrying computer readable program code.

Where aspects of the technology described herein are implemented as a computer program product any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device. Thus computer readable program code for implementing aspects of the technology described herein may be contained or stored in the memory of the onboard computer system of the smartphone or the memory of the computer or on a computer usable or computer readable medium external to the onboard computer system of the smartphone or the computer or on any combination thereof.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable radiofrequency and the like or any suitable combination of the foregoing. Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the presently described technology may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language and conventional procedural programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Finally the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope of the claims. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the technology and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the technology for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

One or more currently preferred embodiments have been described by way of example. It will be apparent to persons skilled in the art that a number of variations and modifications can be made without departing from the scope of the claims.

