---

title: Using game data for providing content items
abstract: Methods and systems for receiving a request for content associated with a game, receiving at least one of a device identifier and at least one of game data, associating the device identifier with the game data to create a document, and retrieving the document to generate relevant content items for display on the web page.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09656166&OS=09656166&RS=09656166
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09656166
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160406
---
This application is a continuation application of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 197 155 titled Using Game Data For Providing Content Items filed on Mar. 4 2014 which is a continuation application and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 590 738 now abandoned entitled Using Game Data For Providing Content Items filed Aug. 21 2012. The disclosure of each of the foregoing applications is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to systems and methods for using game data for providing content items and more particularly to associating device identifiers with the game data to create a document to enable content providers to provide relevant content items for display to a user.

In one implementation in general a computer implemented method includes receiving a request for content associated with a game wherein the associated content is integrated with a web page. The method may also include receiving at least one of a device identifier and at least one of game data. The method may further include storing the game data and the device identifier in a memory. The method may include associating the device identifier with the game data to create a document wherein the document comprises a gaming user list. The method may include storing the document in a memory. The method may also include retrieving the document to generate relevant content items for display on the web page.

In another implementation in general a system may include a processing circuit configured to receive a request for content associated with a game wherein the associated content is integrated with a web page. The processing circuit may be configured to receive at least one of a device identifier and at least one of game data. The processing circuit may also be configured to store the game data and the device identifier in a memory. The processing circuit may be configured to associate the device identifier with the game data to create a document wherein the document comprises a gaming user list. The processing circuit may also be configured to store the document in a memory. The processing circuit may be configured to retrieve the document to generate content items for display to a user.

In yet another implementation in general a computer readable storage medium having instructions therein the instructions being executable by a processor to cause the processor to perform operations including receiving a request for content associated with a game wherein the associated content is integrated with a web page. The operations may also include receiving at least one of a device identifier and at least one of game data. The operations may further include storing the game data and the device identifier in a memory. The operations may include associating the device identifier with the game data to create a document wherein the document comprises a gaming user list. The operations may include storing the document in a memory. The operations may also include retrieving the document to generate relevant content items for display on the web page.

A content provider e.g. a publisher of a web page an advertiser etc. may want to provide relevant content to a specific user who has played a particular game on a client device or any other appropriate system. The content provider may also want to provide relevant content to a user who has reached an achievement within a game or a user that plays the game with a specified level of frequency e.g. a specified number of hours per week and so on.

The system may create an application programming interface API that can set appropriate identifiers e.g. cookies for remarketing and remote procedure calls RPC to store information related to the game e.g. meta data levels achievements etc.

In some implementations the API may be provided to publishers of the game itself. In another implementation a database or repository for gaming information may be provided to the publishers. The database may be distributed to a content provider or source to access the gaming information. In yet another implementation remarketing list capabilities based on the gaming information may be provided to a game publisher and or content provider to determine and provide appropriate content for another content provider and or a user.

The API may also be used to facilitate the generation of lists of users as well as the associated types e.g. conversion types etc. which are associated with a content item group. This list may be sold to advertisers. The advertisers may target users on the list by specifying higher bids for such users. For example when a user is searching or viewing content the content item may be provided to the user e.g. responsive to a content item request . The API may also be used to facilitate the generation of the customization of lists of users e.g. the combination of one or more lists. In some implementations the growth of the list may be monitored e.g. the number of users.

Content providers may thus be able to re market or provide content to the user via an online network by purchasing the list of users from a game provider. Content providers may also be a part of a revenue share model with regard to conversions. For example a portion of revenues received from an advertiser in connection with a content item provided to a user that has reached a level of achievement within a game may be shared with the game provider.

In an alternative implementation a content provider e.g. an advertiser and a gaming publisher may enter into a direct deal instead of using the affiliate like system as described above and herein. In yet another implementation gaming publishers may integrate a content overlay into the games e.g. directly monetizing usage but not providing access to remarketing campaigns such as the system described herein.

The user may opt in or out of receiving relevant content items from a content selection server. Also the user may opt in or out out allowing a content selection server or other content source to identify and store information about the user and or about the devices operated by the user. For example the user may opt in to receiving a content item from the content selection server that may be more relevant to him or her. In one implementation the user may be represented as an anonymized user identifier e.g. a cookie a device serial number etc. that contains no personally identifiable information about the user. For example information relating to the user s name demographics etc. may not be used by the content selection server unless the user opts in to providing such information. Thus the user may have control over how information is collected about him or her and used by the content selection server or other content source.

If the content item is selected based in part on a user identifier for a user that opts in to receiving more relevant content items a content provider may specify that certain content is to be provided to a set of user identifiers. For example the content provider may identify a set of user identifiers associated with visiting the content provider s website and making a purchase. Such users may later wish to know if the content provider is running a sale. In some cases the content network may identify users on behalf of the content provider that may be interested in receiving content items from the content provider. For example content providers may specify a number of topic categories for their content items and the content network may match users interests to the categories to provide relevant content items to the users.

Network may be any form of computer network that relays information between client content selection server and content sources . For example network may include the Internet and or other types of data networks such as a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a cellular network satellite network or other types of data networks. Network may include any number of computing devices e.g. computer servers routers network switches etc. that are configured to receive and or transmit data within network . Network may include any number of hardwired and or wireless connections. For example client may communicate wirelessly e.g. via WiFi cellular radio etc. with a transceiver that is hardwired e.g. via a fiber optic cable a CAT5 cable etc. to other computing devices in network .

Client may be any number of different user electronic devices configured to communicate via network e.g. a laptop computer a desktop computer a tablet computer a smartphone a digital video recorder a set top box for a television a video game console etc. . Client is shown to include a processor and a memory i.e. a processing circuit. Memory stores machine instructions that when executed by processor cause processor to perform one or more of the operations described herein. Processor may include a microprocessor application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA etc. or combinations thereof. Memory may include but is not limited to electronic optical magnetic or any other storage or transmission device capable of providing processor with program instructions. Memory may include a floppy disk CD ROM DVD magnetic disk memory chip ASIC FPGA read only memory ROM random access memory RAM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM flash memory optical media or any other suitable memory from which processor can read instructions. The instructions may include code from any suitable computer programming language such as but not limited to C C C Java JavaScript Perl Python and Visual Basic.

Client may include one or more user interface devices. In general a user interface device refers to any electronic device that conveys data to a user by generating sensory information e.g. a visualization on a display one or more sounds etc. and or converts received sensory information from a user into electronic signals e.g. a keyboard a mouse a pointing device a touch screen display a microphone etc. . The one or more user interface devices may be internal to a housing of client e.g. a built in display microphone etc. or external to the housing of client e.g. a monitor connected to client a speaker connected to client etc. according to various implementations. For example client may include an electronic display which visually displays webpages using webpage data received from content sources and or from content selection server .

Content sources are electronic devices connected to network and provide media content to client . For example content sources may be computer servers e.g. FTP servers file sharing servers web servers etc. or other devices that include a processing circuit. Media content may include but is not limited to webpage data a movie a sound file pictures and other forms of data. Similarly content selection server may include a processing circuit including a processor and a memory . In some implementations content selection server may include several computing devices e.g. a data center a network of servers etc. . In such a case the various devices of content selection server may comprise a processing circuit e.g. processor represents the collective processors of the devices and memory represents the collective memories of the devices .

Content selection server may provide digital content items to client via network . For example content source may provide a webpage to client in response to receiving a request for a webpage from client . In some implementations a content items from content selection server may be provided to client indirectly. For example content source may receive content item data from content selection server and use the content item as part of the webpage data provided to client . In other implementations a content item from content selection server may be provided to client directly. For example content source may provide webpage data to client that includes a command to retrieve an content item from content selection server . On receipt of the webpage data client may retrieve a content item from content selection server based on the command and display the content item when the webpage is rendered on display .

According to various implementations a user of client may search for access etc. various documents e.g. web pages web sites articles images video etc. using a search engine via network . The web pages may be displayed as a search result from a search engine query containing search terms or keywords. Search engine queries may allow the user to enter a search term or keyword into the search engine to execute a document search. Search engines may be stored in memory of server and may be accessible with client . The result of an executed website search on a search engine may include a display on a search engine document of links to websites. Executed search engine queries may result in the display of advertising data generated and transmitted from server . In some cases search engines contract with advertisers to display advertising to users of the search engine in response to certain search engine queries.

In another implementation advertisers may purchase or bid on the search terms such as keyword entries entered by users into a document such as a search engine. When the search term or keyword are entered into the document then advertising data such as links to an advertiser website may be displayed to the user. In some implementations server may use an auction model that generates a content item. Advertisers may bid on keywords using the auction model. The auction model may also be adjusted to reflect the maximum amount an advertiser is willing to spend so that a user is exposed to a content item a minimum number of times.

A user may opt in or out of allowing content selection server or other content source to identify and store information about the user and or about devices operated by the user. For example the user may opt in to receiving content items from content selection server that may be more relevant to her. In one implementation the user may be represented as a randomized device identifier e.g. a cookie a device serial number etc. that contains no personally identifiable information about the user. For example information relating to the user s name demographics etc. may not be used by an content selection server unless the user opts in to providing such information. Thus the user may have control over how information is collected about him or her and used by an content selection server or other content source.

In some implementations the device identifier is associated with a particular instance of a client application e.g. running on client device . In some implementations the device identifier is associated with a user e.g. when the user logs in with a username and password . Some information that may be associated with the user may include events such as one or more queries one or more clicks browser history data e.g. the URLs visited the number of URLs viewed URL visit durations etc. etc. Events may also include advertising metrics such as impressions click through rate etc. for each user. For example the device identifier may include a time stamp associated with a particular event. Events may also include how many times a user is exposed to a particular content item a campaign etc.

Content source may select content to be provided with a webpage based on the device identifier for a user visiting the web page. For example a user may opt in to receiving relevant content items from an content selection server. Rather than selecting a content item to be provided on the web page based on the content of the web page itself or on other factors content selection server may take into account the device identifier provided as part of the content request. In one example a user may visit a number of webpages devoted to reviews of golf clubs and later visit a webpage to check stock quotes. Based on the user s visits to the golf related webpages the user may be determined to be interested in receiving content items for golf clubs. When the user later visits the webpage to check stock quotes an online retailer of golf equipment may seek to include a content item on the webpage for that particular user even though the financial webpage is unrelated to golf.

If content is selected based in part on a device identifier for a user that opts in to receiving more relevant content a content provider may specify that certain content is to be provided to a set of device identifiers. For example an advertiser may identify a set of device identifiers associated with visiting the advertiser s website and making a purchase. Such users may later wish to know if the advertiser is running a sale. In some cases an advertising network may identify users on behalf of the advertiser that may be interested in receiving content items from the advertiser. For example advertisers may specify a number of topic categories for their content items and the advertising network may match users interests to the categories to provide relevant content items to the users.

Such a request may include the name of the file to be retrieved weather.html as well as the network location of the file www.example.org. In some cases a network location may be an IP address or may be a domain name that resolves to an IP address of content source . In some implementations a client identifier such as a cookie associated with content source may be included with webpage request to identify client to content source .

In response to receiving webpage request content source may return webpage data such as the requested file weather.html. Webpage data may be configured to cause client to display a webpage on electronic display when opened by a web browser application. In some cases webpage data may include code that causes client to request additional files to be used as part of the displayed webpage. For example webpage data may include an HTML image tag of the form 

In some implementations webpage data may include content tag configured to cause client to retrieve a content item from content selection server . In some cases content tag may be an HTML image tag that includes the network location of content selection server . In other cases content tag may be implemented using a client side scripting language such as JavaScript. For example content tag may be of the form 

Where AdNetwork RetrieveAd is a script function that causes client to send an content request to content selection server . In some cases the argument of the script function may include the network address of content selection server the referring webpage and or additional information that may be used by content selection server to select content to be included with the webpage.

Content request may include a client identifier used by content selection server to identify client . In various implementations client identifier may be an HTTP cookie previously set by content selection server on client the IP address of client a unique device serial for client other forms of identification information or combinations thereof. For example content selection server may set a cookie that includes a unique string of characters on client when content is first requested by client from content selection server . Such a cookie may be included in subsequent content requests sent to content selection server by client .

In some implementations client identifier may be used by content selection server to store history data for client with the permission of the user of client . For example content request may include data relating to which webpage was requested by client when the webpage was requested and or other history data. Whenever client visits a webpage participating in the content network i.e. a webpage that includes a content item or other content selected by content selection server content selection server may receive and store history data for client . In this way content selection server is able to reconstruct the online history of client regarding webpages in the content network. In some implementations content selection server may also receive history data for client from entities outside of the content network. For example a website that does not use content selected by content selection server may nonetheless provide information about client visiting the website to content selection server with the user s permission.

In some cases client identifier may be sent to content selection server when the user of client performs a particular type of online action. For example webpage data may include a tag that causes client to send client identifier to content selection server when the a displayed content item is selected by the user of client . Client identifier may also be used to record information after client is redirected to another webpage. For example client may be redirected to an advertiser s website if the user selects a displayed content item. In such a case client identifier may also be used to record which actions were performed on the advertiser s website. For example client identifier may also be sent to content selection server as the user of client navigates the advertiser s website. In this way data regarding whether the user searched for a product added a product to a shopping cart completed a purchase on the advertiser s website etc. may also be recorded by content selection server . In some implementations content selection server may use the data regarding users online actions to calculate performance metrics for a webpage e.g. a conversion rate a click through rate etc. .

In response to receiving content request content selection server may select content to be returned to client and displayed on display . For example content selection server may select content based on client identifier and or on a user identifier associated with client identifier . In one implementation content selection server may determine whether client identifier corresponds to a similar user identifier as that of one or more other user identifiers. For example content selection server may determine whether a client identifier for client is associated with characteristics that are similar to that of one or more other user identifiers specified by an advertiser. Content selection server may analyze history data for the one or more user identifiers specified by the advertiser to identify characteristics of the user identifiers. The characteristics may be compared to those of the user identifier associated with client to determine its similarity. In some implementations content selection server may determine a similarity score to represent how similar the characteristics of the user identifier is to that of the user identifiers specified by the advertiser.

In some implementations content selection server may use characteristics of the one or more user identifiers specified by an advertiser or other content source to train a behavioral model. For example a large number of user identifiers associated with online purchases of insurance may have recently visited a webpage that compares rates among different insurance carriers. Such a characteristic may be used in a behavioral model by content selection server to identify other user identifiers of users that may also be interested in purchasing insurance. In some implementations the behavioral model may be constructed by representing a user identifier as a set of feature vectors. In general a feature vector refers to an n dimensional vector of characteristics of a user identifier such as information about online actions associated with the user identifier. Characteristics of a user identifier may include webpages visited by the user identifier content items selected by the user identifier and or content items selected by the user identifier that led to a conversion. In general a conversion refers to the performance of a certain action. Typically the action is the purchase of a good or service. For example a selected content item that led to a conversion may be a content item that diverted a client device to a website at which a purchase was made. Other examples of conversions include creating a user profile on a website subscribing to receive marketing offers e.g. by providing a postal or email address by providing a telephone number etc. or downloading software from a website.

In some implementations characteristics of user identifiers may be normalized by utilizing a term frequency inverse document frequency TF IDF count. Webpages visited by a user identifier may be represented by their uniform resource location URL or similar addresses. A selected content item may be a content item embedded into a webpage a game a pop up content item a banner content item or the like.

In some implementations content selection server may aggregate feature vectors to find a set of characteristics based on a statistical measurement of the aggregated characteristics. For example the aggregated characteristics may be the number of times a webpage was visited by the set of user identifiers the number of times a content item or group of content items was selected and or the number of times a content item or group of content items led to a conversion. In various implementations a statistical measurement of the aggregated characteristics may be the average median centroid or other statistical measure of the aggregated characteristics. In one implementation the aggregated characteristics having the highest amount of activity may be selected e.g. the top five most visited webpages the top ten selected content items etc. .

A received set of user identifiers may be subdivided by content selection server into clusters to generate the behavioral model in one implementation. In some cases different groups of user identifiers may be associated with the same event and may be associated with widely different interests and motivations. For example a roll of copper tubing may be purchased from an online hardware store both by plumbers and by hobbyists that homebrew beer. In such a case the online histories for these two groups may widely differ. For example the short term histories of the plumbers may include a number of webpages devoted to making a certain type of plumbing repair. Likewise the short term histories of the hobbyists may include a number of webpages devoted to do it yourself projects to make a heat sink using copper tubing. Using clustering allows for the different groups of user identifiers to be treated separately in the behavioral model.

In some implementations feature vectors may be subdivided into clusters by computing a weighted nearest neighbor list for each user identifier in the set of user identifiers that content selection server uses to train the behavioral model. For example the feature vectors may be analyzed by content selection server to determine which vectors are closest to one another. In one implementation the nearest neighbor list for the received set of user identifiers may be determined by applying a k nearest neighbor KNN algorithm or similar algorithm to the feature vectors. For example webpages visited by plumbers may be used to form one cluster while webpages visited by home brewing hobbyists may be used to form a second cluster based on their nearest neighbors.

In some implementations content selection server may calculate a similarity score for the user identifier associated with client based on how similar the characteristics of the user identifier are to those of one or more user identifiers specified by an auction participant e.g. an advertiser or other content provider . For example an advertiser may send a request to content selection server to identify a user identifier similar to one or more user identifiers specified by the advertiser. Content selection server may determine whether the user identifier associated with client is a similar user identifier and generate a similarity score for the user identifier. In some implementations content selection server may automatically generate a bid for the advertiser or other content provider in response to content selection server receiving content request from client . For example if the user identifier of client is determined to be similar to user identifiers specified by an advertiser content selection server may generate a bid in the auction on behalf of the advertiser. In one implementation the bid may be determined by content selection server based in part on the similarity score for the user identifier associated with client . Based on the results of the auction content selection server may select content and return the content to client or return an instruction to client configured to cause client to retrieve content from another source.

In a brief overview depicts that a publisher of a website integrates a software development kit SDK which may be provided by a game provider a social networking provider etc. or an API into a game. The user interacts with the game by playing the game and or reaching a particular level. The SDK API creates and stores a device based non human readable identifier. The SDK API hashes the identifier and then sends out an RPC remote procedure call to the social networking provider game provider etc. with the hashed identifier. The gaming hashed identifiers the associated publishers user lists and user s gaming actions e.g. levels completed are stored in the system. Search content and display content item requests read the hashed identifier information to provide relevant content items to the user. System may assist in creating and integrating the SDK API which may be used to create lists of users that reach particular gaming achievements that exhibit a particular frequency of playing the game etc. These users lists may then be used by content providers to select criteria that will match with these users in their campaigns.

More specifically client device may receive game application . In some implementations client device may download game application from a web site a server etc. In another implementation client device may use the game application via another website e.g. by using an applet. Other ways for client device to receive game application may also be implemented. For example game identifier may be received by client . In some implementations game identifier may be analogous to a session identifier that identifies the session. Game identifier may keep track of the current state of the user s game e.g. levels achievements etc. . In other implementations game identifier may be used by the gaming web site to send state information to client device and for client device to return the state information to the web site using device identifier . The state information may be used for authentication identification of the user the user s preferences or any additional information that may be stored as data on client device .

Interface of system receives information associated with the user e.g. game information social networking information and or media accessed by the user. Interface allows the user to interact with the game. Interface may include a graphical user interface a command line interface a text based interface etc. Interface receives information from game application along with information from client device to present the game to the user.

Interface may also include the API which allows game application to communicate with first party content provider e.g. game provider database and any other component over the Internet. The communication may take place through remote procedure calls. In some implementations the API sets an identifier e.g. device identifier for remarketing. The identifier may be based on the user. The API may place a remote procedure call for particular gaming information with an identifier e.g. game identifier device identifier or any other random identifier using a unique identification number generated by a web server to identify each user on the web site.

First party content provider module may receive gaming information and other important information related to providing relevant content via the game through interface . For example interface may be provided to first party content provider module for the first party content provider to input selection criteria or other appropriate criteria to serve relevant content to the user. In some implementations the first party content provider may provide other useful selection information about the user e.g. information collected during registration to play the game.

A third party content provider e.g. advertiser module may access interface to set up remarketing lists. In some implementations the list may be set up by the game provider. In other implementations the list may be set up by the advertiser. For example the third party content provider module may be a publisher that logs onto a web site to determine which remarketing lists are for sale. The third party content provider may access third party content provider module to select a gaming user list. Database may store the gaming user list and or the remarketing lists.

The third party content provider module may purchase the user lists via interface . In some implementations third party content provider module may modify edit etc. the user lists via interface . In other implementations third party content provider module may contact the first party content provider via interface . Interface may also access database which may store the user lists and or gaming information associated with game application for the third party content provider. The third party content provider may utilize the user lists gaming information and other meta data stored in database to determine selection criteria. The selection criteria may then be used to provide relevant content to the user.

Example method may begin at block request for content associated with a game is received. For example the request for content may be a content item request. In some implementations the associated content may be integrated with a web page. The content may include embedded code PDF documents other file formats images hyperlinks articles etc. Selection of the content may cause an HTTP request to be made to a content selection server for additional content and or content items.

At block a device identifier may be received. In some implementations game data may be received. The game data may include a user profile user preferences user statistics and other user information related to the game. The device identifier may be collected for a single session of the game such as matching the device and game information to a session identifier. The information may be made anonymous but may still receive appropriate information for a more enjoyable game session for a user.

At block the device identifier may be stored in a memory. In some implementations the game data may be stored in the memory. In some implementations the device identifier and or game data may be stored in the memory of a mobile computing device of a user. Alternatively the device identifier and or game data may be stored in a memory located within the system such as a server.

At block the device identifier is associated with the game data to create a document e.g. a user list. In some implementations the document is a gaming user list. In other implementations the document is a remarketing list. The remarketing list may be accessed by a first party content provider e.g. a web site publisher or a third party content provider e.g. an advertiser . The remarketing list may include users who visited specific sites within the game reached a specific level played the game at a certain time or for a specified amount of time etc. This information may be included within a master list or a number of different lists may be created.

At block the document may be stored in a memory. In some implementations the document may be stored in a memory in a server. The server may be related to the game e.g. a social networking web site server . In another implementation the server may be a third party server e.g. an advertiser a publisher etc.

At block the document is retrieved to generate relevant content items for display on the web page. In some implementations the document is used to provide selection criteria to generate the relevant content items which may be integrated into the game. The selection criteria may include but is not limited to demographics placement and time of day. In some implementations the third party content provider e.g. an advertiser may purchase the document. In some implementations method may also include creating the document by embedding a tag into the web page. The web page may be a home page.

In an alternative implementation the method may include integrating by a server computer an application programming interface into a game receiving by the server computer an interaction with the game setting by the application programming interface an identifier for remarketing based on the interaction associating by the application programming interface the game with the remarketing identifier to create a report and providing the report as display data.

Implementations of the subject matter and the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in other types of digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them.

Implementations of the subject matter and the operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer programs i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on one or more computer storage media for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. Alternatively or in addition the program instructions can be encoded on an artificially generated propagated signal e.g. a machine generated electrical optical or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus for execution by a data processing apparatus. A computer storage medium can be or be included in a computer readable storage device a computer readable storage substrate a random or serial access memory array or device or a combination of one or more of them. Moreover while a computer storage medium is not a propagated signal a computer storage medium can be a source or destination of computer program instructions encoded in an artificially generated propagated signal. The computer storage medium can also be or be included in one or more separate components or media e.g. multiple CDs disks or other storage devices . Accordingly the computer storage medium is tangible.

The operations described in this specification can be performed by a data processing apparatus on data stored on one or more tangible computer readable storage devices or received from other sources.

The term data processing apparatus or computing device encompasses all kinds of apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer a system on a chip or multiple ones or combinations of the foregoing. The apparatus can include special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit . The apparatus can also include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system a cross platform runtime environment a virtual machine or a combination of one or more of them. The apparatus and execution environment can realize various different computing model infrastructures such as web services distributed computing and grid computing infrastructures.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine object or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for performing actions in accordance with instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Moreover a computer can be embedded in another device e.g. a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile audio or video player a game console a Global Positioning System GPS receiver or a portable storage device e.g. a universal serial bus USB flash drive to name just a few. Devices suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

While this specification contains many specific implementation details these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of any inventions or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular implementations of particular inventions. Certain features described in this specification in the context of separate implementations can also be implemented in combination in a single implementation. Conversely various features described in the context of a single implementation can also be implemented in multiple implementations separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the implementations described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all implementations and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated in a single software product embodied on a tangible storage medium or packaged into multiple software products embodied on tangible storage media.

Thus particular implementations of the subject matter have been described. Other implementations are within the scope of the following claims. In some cases the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. In addition the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In certain implementations multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous.

