---

title: Providing enhanced wireline services
abstract: Novel tools and techniques that provide enhanced wireline services at one or more known wireline locations. In some cases, these tools and techniques involve determining that a subscriber is at one or more of the known wireline locations based on a detected location of the subscriber's wireless device (e.g., wireless phone, portable computer, etc.). Once the subscriber's presence at that wireline location has been detected, enhanced services can be provided to a wireline telephone at that location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09571637&OS=09571637&RS=09571637
owner: Qwest Communications International Inc.
number: 09571637
owner_city: Denver
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160107
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 804 947 filed Jul. 21 2015 by Ashish Agarwal and titled Providing Enhanced Wireline Services which is a continuation of Ser. No. 14 472 640 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 119 048 filed Aug. 29 2014 by Ashish Agarwal and titled Providing Enhanced Wireline Services which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 029 711 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 855 283 filed Feb. 17 2011 by Ashish Agarwal and titled Providing Enhanced Wireline Services the entire teachings of which are incorporated herein by reference.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The present disclosure relates in general to the provision of telephone service and more particularly to the provision of enhanced wireline services to a subscriber based at least in part on a location of a wireless device associated with the subscriber.

Wireless devices play an increasingly important role in everyday life. A wireless device as used herein means any mobile device that is capable of determining its own location e.g. using internal hardware software by receiving location information from an external device and or the like and is capable of transmitting and or receiving data on a network e.g. a wireless network that provides connectivity to the Internet a cellular network etc. . Examples of such devices include without limitation wireless phones e.g. phones operating on wireless wide area networks WWAN such as code division multiple access CDMA networks and their derivatives Global System for Mobile Communication GSM networks and their derivatives and or the like and or on wireless local area networks WLAN such as WiFi networks and or the like wireless portable computers e.g. computers including handheld computers laptop computers etc. that can operate on similar wireless networks etc. and smartphones which may combine the features of wireless phones and wireless portable computers. Such wireless devices provide subscribers with mobile connectivity allowing subscribers not only to communicate when mobile e.g. via electronic mail voice calls etc. but also providing information to facilitate such communication e.g. with address books calendars etc. that are synchronized with personal computers and or enterprise platforms .

As subscribers have become accustomed to the convenience and mobility provided by such devices traditional facilities such as public pay phones and paper directory listings have become relatively scarce since a wireless subscriber can carry with him both the means to obtain contact information for third parties as well as the means for conducting communication with those third parties. Further a wireless subscriber can place and receive voice calls in any area in which coverage exists. No longer does a subscriber need to inform contacts of his location in order to receive calls when away from home. While manual call forwarding can address this issue somewhat many subscribers have difficulty remembering to activate manual call forwarding and or remembering the operations required to do so .

Currently however mobile devices are not ideal for every communication situation. For example wireless network quality varies inter alia with usage levels and location. In part because of this variance wireline telephone service including without limitation Plain Old Telephone System POTS and other public switched telephone networks PSTN Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP and other packet switched networks often is considered by subscribers to have greater reliability and or call quality in a given location than wireless voice service which can vary according to network coverage and conditions. Moreover many wireless service plans charge per minute usage rates which renders some subscribers reluctant to use a wireless phone in locations where wireline service is available.

Certain embodiments provide solutions that can provide some of the advantages of both wireline and wireless service while minimizing some of the disadvantages of each. Some of these solutions comprise tools and techniques that provide enhanced wireline services at one or more known wireline locations. In some cases these tools and techniques involve determining that a subscriber is at one or more of the known wireline locations based on a detected location of the subscriber s wireless device e.g. wireless phone portable computer etc. . Once the subscriber s presence at that wireline location has been detected enhanced services can be provided to a wireline telephone at that location.

Merely by way of example in some cases providing enhanced wireline services can comprise automatically forwarding telephone calls which might be directed to one or more telephone numbers forwarded numbers associated with the subscriber to a number corresponding to the wireline telephone at that location. The forwarded number s can include without limitation the subscriber s wireless number other wireline numbers e.g. a subscriber s home telephone number work telephone number and or the like . Thus when a subscriber is at a known location calls for that subscriber at any of several numbers in some cases can be forwarded to a wireline telephone at that location. Alternatively if the subscriber is not at a location that corresponds to any known location calls might be forwarded to the wireless device. In an aspect such embodiments can provide the mobility and accessibility traditionally afforded by wireless telephones but without the attendant disadvantages of wireless services e.g. per minute usage rates variable wireless coverage etc. .

Other enhanced services are possible in various embodiments. For instance in another embodiment providing enhanced services can include providing a click to call functionality. In one aspect of such functionality a subscriber can initiate a call or at least select a target number on his wireless device e.g. by selecting a contact from an address book on the wireless selecting a link in a browser on the wireless device or any of a variety of other methods of call initiation . The call however can be placed with the wireline phone at the subscriber s location. Merely by way of example in some cases the wireline network will place a first call to the wireline number at the subscriber s location place a second call to the target number i.e. the number to which the subscriber attempts to place a call with the wireless device and join the first and the second calls allowing a subscriber to conduct a call using the wireline phone with another party at the target number. In an aspect such embodiments can provide the convenience of a wireless device including inter alia the subscriber s personal address book and or the computing abilities of the wireless device without the attendant disadvantages of wireless service described above.

The tools provided by various embodiments include without limitation methods systems and or software products. Merely by way of example a method might comprise one or more procedures any or all of which are executed by a computer system. Correspondingly an embodiment might provide a computer system configured with instructions to perform one or more procedures in accordance with methods provided by various other embodiments. Similarly a computer program might comprise a set of instructions that are executable by a computer system and or a processor therein to perform such operations. In many cases such software programs are encoded on physical tangible and or non transitory computer readable media such as to name but a few examples optical media magnetic media and or the like .

Merely by way of example a method of providing a wireline telephone subscriber with enhanced wireline service in accordance with one embodiment might comprise maintaining a list of one or more wireline locations for which enhanced wireline services should be provided to the subscriber. In an aspect each of the one or more wireline locations might have associated therewith a wireline subscriber number. Merely by way of example in one embodiment the one or more wireline locations comprises a first wireline location having associated therewith a first wireline subscriber number.

In some cases the method further comprises detecting a location of a wireless device associated with the subscriber and or determining that the location of the wireless device corresponds to the first wireline location. The method then might comprise providing with a wireline telephone network enhanced wireline services at the wireline subscriber number associated with the first wireline location.

A variety of enhanced wireline services are possible. For instance in some embodiments providing enhanced wireline services might comprise enabling a call forwarding service to forward one or more telephone calls to the first wireline subscriber number. Merely by way of example if the one or more wireline locations comprises a second wireline location having associated therewith a second wireline subscriber number which is a home of the subscriber and the second wireline subscriber number being a home telephone number of the subscriber and if the first wireline location is a location other than the home of the subscriber forwarding one or more telephone calls to the first wireline subscriber number might comprise automatically enabling a call forwarding service to forward to the first wireline number all calls addressed to the home telephone number of the subscriber based on a determination that the location of the wireless device corresponds to the first wireline location.

In some cases the method might further comprise detecting a second location of the wireless device. If it is determined that the second location of the wireless device corresponds to the home of the subscriber the method might also comprise disabling the call forwarding service based on a determination that the subscriber is located at the home of the subscriber. On the other hand if the system determines that the second location of the wireless device does not correspond to any of the one or more wireline locations for which enhanced wireline services should be provided the method might comprise re enabling the call forwarding service to forward one or more calls to a wireless subscriber number associated with the wireless device

In other embodiments providing enhanced wireline services at the first wireline subscriber number might comprise detecting an attempt to originate a telephone call from the wireless device to a target telephone number and or placing a call to the target telephone number from the first wireline telephone number. Merely by way of example the system might originate a first call to the first wireline telephone number from a wireline service provider originate a second call to the target telephone number and or join the first call and the second call.

Another set of embodiments provides apparatus. An exemplary apparatus might comprise a computer readable medium having encoded thereon a set of instructions executable by one or more computers to perform one or more operations. The set of instructions might comprise instructions for maintaining a list of one or more wireline locations for which enhanced wireline services should be provided to the subscriber each of which might associated therewith a wireline subscriber number for example the one or more wireline locations might comprise a first wireline location having associated therewith a first wireline subscriber number. The set of instructions might further comprise instructions for detecting a location of a wireless device associated with the subscriber instructions for determining that the location of the wireless device corresponds to the first wireline location and or instructions for providing with a wireline telephone network enhanced wireline services at the wireline subscriber number associated with the first wireline location. In some cases providing enhanced wireline services might comprise instructing another device to provide enhanced wireline services. Merely by way of example if the set of instructions is executable by a wireless device the instructions for providing enhanced wireline services might comprise instructions to direct an application server to provide the enhanced wireline services likewise the application server might have instructions to direct a telephony switch to provide the enhanced wireline services. 

Yet another set of embodiments provides computer systems an example of which might comprise one or more processors and a computer readable medium in communication with the one or more processors the computer readable medium having encoded thereon a set of instructions executable by the computer system to perform one or more operations such as for example the set of instructions described above.

In some cases a wireless device might comprise the computer system or a portion thereof in which case the instructions for providing enhanced wireline service might comprise instructions for communicating with the wireline telephone network to cause the wireline telephone network to provide the enhanced wireline services. In other cases the computer system might reside within the wireline network e.g. as an application server telephony switch etc. in which case the instructions for detecting the location of the wireless device might comprise instructions for receiving from the wireless device information about the location of the wireless device.

While various aspects and features of certain embodiments have been summarized above the following detailed description illustrates a few exemplary embodiments in further detail to enable one of skill in the art to practice such embodiments. The described examples are provided for illustrative purposes and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the described embodiments. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art however that other embodiments of the present may be practiced without some of these specific details. In other instances certain structures and devices are shown in block diagram form. Several embodiments are described herein and while various features are ascribed to different embodiments it should be appreciated that the features described with respect to one embodiment may be incorporated with other embodiments as well. By the same token however no single feature or features of any described embodiment should be considered essential to every embodiment of the invention as other embodiments of the invention may omit such features.

Unless otherwise indicated all numbers used herein to express quantities dimensions and so forth used should be understood as being modified in all instances by the term about. In this application the use of the singular includes the plural unless specifically stated otherwise and use of the terms and and or means and or unless otherwise indicated. Moreover the use of the term including as well as other forms such as includes and included should be considered non exclusive. Terms such as element or component encompass both elements and components comprising one unit and elements and components that comprise more than one unit unless specifically stated otherwise.

Certain embodiments provide solutions that can provide some of the advantages of both wireline and wireless service while minimizing some of the disadvantages of each. Some of these solutions comprise tools and techniques that provide enhanced wireline services at one or more known wireline locations. In some cases these tools and techniques involve determining that a subscriber is at one or more of the known wireline locations based on a detected location of the subscriber s wireless device e.g. wireless phone portable computer etc. .

Such a determination can be made for example based on location services provided by or to the wireless device using technologies such as global network satellite system GNSS receivers of which global positioning system GPS receivers are a subset cellular base station triangulation WiFi based location services such as those provided by Skyhook Inc. and or the like. In some cases for example an application on a wireless device might poll its location periodically e.g. by polling a GPS receiver by interrogating a Wi Fi based location service . In other cases the device might be configured to receive location information only when the location changes and or when the wireless device arrives at a location of interest. The wireless device s detected location can be compared with a database of known wireline locations to determine that the wireless device and by implication the user of that device is present at a particular wireline location in some cases to within a specified proximity . Once the subscriber s presence at that wireline location has been detected enhanced services can be provided to a wireline telephone at that location.

A variety of enhanced wireline services can be provided through a wireline telephone once the subscriber s presence at the location of that telephone has been identified. Merely by way of example in some cases telephone calls which might be directed to one or more telephone numbers forwarded numbers associated with the subscriber might be forwarded to a number corresponding to the wireline telephone at that location. The forwarded number s can include without limitation the subscriber s wireless number other wireline numbers e.g. a subscriber s home telephone number work telephone number and or the like . Thus when a subscriber is at a known location calls for that subscriber at any of several numbers in some cases can be forwarded to a wireline telephone at that location. In an aspect such embodiments can provide the mobility and accessibility traditionally afforded by wireless telephones but without the attendant disadvantages of wireless services e.g. per minute usage rates variable wireless coverage etc. .

As another example some embodiments provide click to call functionality as an enhanced wireline service. In one aspect of such embodiments a subscriber can initiate a call or at least select a target number on a wireless device e.g. by selecting a contact from an address book on the wireless selecting a link in a browser on the wireless device or any of a variety of other methods of call initiation . The call however can be placed via the wireline phone at the subscriber s current location e.g. as identified by the location of the subscriber s wireless device . Merely by way of example in some cases the wireline network might place a first call to the target number i.e. the number to which the subscriber attempts to place a call with the wireless device place a second call to the wireline number at the subscriber s location and join the first and the second calls allowing a subscriber to conduct a call using the wireline phone with another party at the target number. In an aspect such embodiments can provide the convenience of a wireless device including inter alia the subscriber s personal address book and or the computing abilities of the wireless device without the attendant disadvantages of wireless service described above.

Consider which illustrates in block diagram form the components of an exemplary system for providing enhanced wireline services to a subscriber with a wireless device . As noted above in some cases the wireless device will be a wireless phone e.g. a smartphone although other types of wireless devices can be used with various embodiments. The system further comprises a wireline service provider which provides wireline e.g. POTS VoIP etc. telephone service to a plurality of wireline telephones .

As illustrated the plurality of wireline telephones comprises a first wireline telephone which is situated at a known location and a second wireline telephone which is situated at a second known location . It should be appreciated of course that the wireline service provider generally will provide wireline service to a great number of wireline phones some or all of which will be situated at known locations but that for convenience illustrates only two such telephones .

In certain embodiments the system is equipped to detect the location of the wireless device using any of a variety of available techniques including without limitation GNSS solutions cellular base station triangulation WiFi location services and or the like . Such location detection techniques are known to those skilled in the art and a detailed discussion of their implementation and or selection is unnecessary other than to note that some such techniques e.g. GNSS position determination might rely on the wireless device to detect its own position and or communicate that information to the wireline service provider while other techniques e.g. cellular base station triangulation might rely on the provider and or a separate wireless service provider to detect the position of the wireless device and or communicate that information to the wireless device .

The wireline service provider operates conventional equipment for providing wireline service including without limitation a PSTN and or components thereof such as standard advanced intelligent network AIN and or Signaling System No. 7 SS7 components including service switching points SSP service control points SCP various other switches gateways and the like a VoIP network and or components thereof such as a data network a VoIP soft switch etc. . Such equipment can be operated in a conventional manner except as described herein and need not be described in detail other than to note that the wireline service provider operates an application server in communication with the wireless device as described in further detail below and a telephony switch which might be a VoIP switch an SSP and or SCP etc. that is in communication with the wireline telephones and provides telephony services including both conventional telephony services and the enhanced wireline service described herein to the wireline telephones . Once again while illustrates only one switch it should be understood that a typical implementation will include a plurality of switches with trunk connections to provide connectivity between a plurality of wireline telephones in the conventional manner. Standard and or proprietary communication facilities e.g. fiber optic lines twisted pair wireless links etc. may be used to provide communication between the various devices of the system .

In an embodiment the application server communicates with the wireless device over the Internet and or a private network e.g. a network operated by the wireline provider and or a wireless provider . Various communication arrangements are possible between the wireless device and the application server including without limitation communication via Internet Protocol IP and any such arrangement may be used in accordance with various embodiments. The application server also communicates with the one or more telephony switches perhaps via IP. Thus in an aspect the application server provides an interface between the wireless device and the wireline network.

While not illustrated on a database or other data storage arrangement may be present within the system . The term database should be interpreted broadly to include any structured unstructured or relational data storage arrangement including without limitation directories such as those that employ lightweight directory access protocol LDAP databases managed by a relational database management system RDBMS delimited or non delimited files on a file system etc. . The database might reside on the wireless device the application server a computer system separate from but in communication with either the wireless device and or the application server each or some combination of the above. In an aspect the database might store for each of a plurality of subscribers a list of known wireline locations correlated with one or more wireline telephone numbers sometimes referred to herein as wireline subscriber numbers associated with each known wireline location perhaps including an identifier e.g. Home Work etc. for each known location.

The database might also store for each wireline location an identification of one or more enhanced services that should be provided to the subscriber at that wireline location. Further the database might store for some or all of the identified services one or more operational parameters. Merely by way of example if a particular wireline location should be provided with call forwarding services when the subscriber is at that location the database might store an indication that this service should be provided as well as a list of directory numbers that should be forwarded to the wireline telephone at that location.

The operation of the system is described in more detail below with respect to but in general when the system detects that the wireless device is at a location corresponding to a known wireline location e.g. Known Location A the telephony switch provides enhanced wireline services to a wireline telephone e.g. wireline telephone at that location. When the wireless device moves to a new location the system determines whether the new location corresponds to another wireline telephone e.g. if the wireless device moved to Known Location B the system would determine that the location of the wireless device and therefore the subscriber corresponded to the wireline telephone associated with that location and would provide enhanced wireline service to that wireline telephone . In an aspect of some embodiments once the wireless device leaves a known wireline location the system detects that change and disables the enhanced wireline services at the corresponding wireline telephone. In some cases the system might then forward calls to the wireless device itself unless and until the wireless device reaches another known location .

For example in one embodiment Known Location A might be the wireless subscriber s home and the wireline telephone associated with that location might be the wireless subscribers home telephone to which the wireless subscriber s home telephone number is assigned. Known Location B might be the wireless subscriber s parents home and the wireline telephone at that location might be the parents home telephone to which the parents home telephone number is assigned. When the wireless subscriber and the wireless device are at home at Known Location A the system might forward the wireless subscriber s office telephone number and the wireless subscriber s wireless number e.g. the number assigned to the wireless device itself to the subscriber s home telephone number so that calls placed to either the office telephone number or the wireless telephone number are instead terminated at the wireline telephone . Similarly the system might implement other features such as click to call so that if the subscriber attempts to originate a telephone call from the wireless device that call is instead originated from the wireline telephone

Continuing the example if the subscriber travels to his parents house i.e. Known Location B for dinner the system upon detecting that the wireless device has left the subscriber s house i.e. Known Location A will disable the enhanced wireline services provided to his home wireline telephone . For example the system might disable call forwarding from the wireless device number and or the office telephone number to the home wireline telephone number. In some cases because the system detects that the wireless device is not at a location corresponding to any known wireline telephone the system might automatically forward one or more numbers e.g. the number assigned to the wireline telephone the subscriber s office telephone number etc. directly to the number assigned to the wireless device .

When the subscriber reaches his parents home i.e. Known Location B in this example the system detects that the wireless device is at a location corresponding to the wireline telephone and it automatically enables enhanced wireline services to that wireline telephone . Merely by way of example the system might enable call forwarding from the subscriber s home telephone number i.e. the telephone number assigned to wireline telephone the telephone number assigned to the wireless device the subscriber s office telephone number and or the like to the number assigned to the wireline telephone at the subscriber s parents home. As another example the system might enable click to call functionality for the wireless device using the wireline telephone at the parents home for example as described above .

The system can employ a number of different techniques to provide this functionality. In most cases the application server receives input from the wireless device and based on that input programs the telephony switch to provide the enhanced wireline services to the appropriate wireline telephone . In some cases a plurality of telephony switches might be in communication with the application server and the application server might program the appropriate switch to correspond to the wireline telephone that should be provided with the enhanced wireline services. One skilled in the art will appreciate that there are a number of different techniques for providing communication between an application server and one or more telephony switches and that any appropriate technique may be selected in accordance with different embodiments.

In an aspect the application server can be any computer system capable of interfacing either directly or via other intermediary devices with the wireless device and the telephony switch es . Moreover a number of techniques can be used to provide communication between the application server and the wireless device . Merely by way of example in some cases the described functionality might be provided by a dedicated application running on the wireless device and or an application programming interface API executing on the application server the API might receive information from the application and cause the application server to perform accordingly. In other cases a web service model might be employed in which the wireless device communicates via standard protocols e.g. HTML XML Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP Representational State Transfer REST etc. with a web service running on the application server. Other communication models are possible as well.

Moreover the nature of the interaction between the wireless phone and application server and the division of functionality between those devices can vary by embodiment. Hence in many embodiments the functionality ascribed to the system can be performed in various combinations by the wireless device itself the application server and or the telephony switch . Moreover the functionality of the application server and the telephony switch might be integrated in a single device in some embodiments.

To illustrate one possible arrangement in certain embodiments the wireless device might simply determine its location and e.g. periodically upon determining that the location has changed perhaps by some specified degree and or upon user request notify the application server of that location. In other cases the wireless device might not even need to provide any information to the application server for example a location service external to the wireless device such as a WiFi position determination system a base station triangulation system and or the like might provide location information to the wireless device and or directly to the application server . In such embodiments the application server might be configured to use the location of the wireless device to perform the operations necessary to determine whether and or where to provide enhanced wireline service as described in further detail below.

In other embodiments the wireless device might provide a larger portion of the functionality of the system . Merely by way of example the wireless device or more precisely in some cases an application running on the wireless device might detect the location of the wireless device e.g. via signals obtained by a GNSS receiver in or in communication with the wireless device and or using one of the other techniques described herein and determine whether that location corresponds to one of several known wireline locations a database of which might be maintained by the wireless device . Based on this determination the wireless device might instruct the application server to provide enhanced wireline services at a wireline location corresponding to the current location of the wireless device . In further embodiments the wireless device might even participate in providing the enhanced wireline services. For example the wireless device might be configured with an application to detect an attempted outgoing call intercept the attempted call and instruct the application server to place a call using the wireline telephone at the current location of the wireless device . A variety of other functional arrangements are possible as well.

Turning to the method comprises at block maintaining a list of wireline locations sometimes referred to herein as known wireline locations for which enhanced wireline services are to be provided to the subscriber. In an aspect maintaining a list of wireline locations might comprise storing each of the known wireline locations in a database e.g. storing a latitude longitude pair address etc. corresponding to each known wireline location adding additional wireline locations to the database and or any other operation that involves tracking wireline locations at which to provide the enhanced services described herein. In an aspect each of the known wireline locations is associated in the database with one or more wireline telephone numbers at which enhanced wireline services can be provided at that location.

For example illustrates a method adding a wireline location to a list of wireline locations. In some embodiments the method comprises receiving a notification from a subscriber that a wireline location should be added to the list block . The notification can be received in a variety of ways. Merely by way of example in some cases the application server might provide a web site e.g. using a web server integrated with or in communication with the application server that provides a user interface to allow a subscriber to provide input notifying the system that a wireline location should be added to the list and such a notification could be received from the subscriber at the web site.

In other embodiments an application running on the wireless device might be configured to receive input from the subscriber and or to obtain data from a GNSS receiver to identify a location to be added to the list. Merely by way of example in a particular embodiment the wireless device might provide an interface to allow the subscriber to mark the wireless device s current location e.g. as identified by GNSS data and or any other location e.g. as identified by an address input by the subscriber as a wireline location to be added to the list. The wireless device then might store in a local database information about the identified location and or transmit that that notification including the location information to the application server e.g. via an API a web service etc. depending on the embodiment.

At block the method might comprise identifying a wireline number corresponding to the wireline location. A variety of techniques might be used to identify the wireline number. For example in a particular embodiment the system might receive information identifying the wireline number block e.g. from the subscriber. For example after marking a location with the wireless device the subscriber might be prompted with an interface to identify a wireline number associated with that location. Alternatively and or additionally the method might comprise searching a directory e.g. a telephone listing directory maintained by the wireline provider for a wireline number corresponding to the wireline location block . Other techniques are possible as well. Merely by way of example if the wireline telephone provider is also a data provider an IP address of a device e.g. the wireless device at the location could be used to lookup a corresponding telephone number.

In some cases it may be beneficial to define the scope of the wireline location such that if the subscriber or more precisely the subscriber s wireless device is within the scope of the wireline location the system should provide enhanced wireline services to the wireline number. Accordingly the method might comprise determining a radius of enhanced services block .

As one skilled in the art will appreciate a location might be defined in a number of ways. For example a location might be defined as an address which identifies a parcel of land or a portion thereof . In other cases a location might be defined as a latitude longitude pair or by reference to some other reference coordinate system which defines to some specified precision a specific point on the Earth. It might not be useful however to confine the provision of enhanced wireline services to situations when the wireless device and or subscriber is at that specific point. Rather it might be more useful to provide such services when the wireless device and or subscriber is within some specified radius of that point or address .

Accordingly in some cases the system might define or receive input from the subscriber to specify one or more radii which typically but not necessarily will define a circular area centered on the location marked as a known wireline location that specifies the scope of that wireline location. When the wireless device and or subscriber is within that area the subscriber is considered to be at the known wireline location. This radius or radii might be defined based on subscriber input e.g. via the same interface used by the subscriber to mark a wireline location and or a default radius might be provided by the system. In some cases the subscriber might be provided with the option e.g. on a per location basis to define one or more radii to use the system default radius or not to expand the scope of the wireline location at all. In other cases the scope of the wireline location might be defined automatically without input from and or notification to the subscriber.

In some cases the radius use to define the scope of the wireline location might be variable and or dynamic based on the location determination technology in use at the time the wireless device is at the location. For example it is known that different location determination technologies have different levels of precision and or accuracy. Accordingly for example if the wireless device is using GNSS data to obtain location fix the radius might be relatively small while if the wireless device is using cellular triangulation which is generally known to have lower precision than GNSS solutions the radius might be relatively larger since the wireless device might appear to be outside the smaller radius even while the wireless device is in fact at that location just because of the imprecision of the location solution.

One or more operations of the method can be repeated as desired to add additional known wireline locations to the list. Of course it should be appreciated that other techniques might be used to populate a list of wireline locations. Merely by way of example a provider might auto populate the list with one or more wireline telephone numbers associated with a wireless subscriber s account and or might receive from the subscriber an identification of one or more of wireline numbers at which enhanced wireline services should be provided. The subscriber might then identify locations correlating to these numbers e.g. via directory information account information other geolocation techniques etc. and add those locations and the correlated numbers to the list of known wireline locations.

Returning to at block the method comprises detecting a current location of the wireless device. The current location might be detected e.g. at the wireless device and or the application server by obtaining GNSS data from a GNSS receiver incorporated within or in communication with the wireless device. Alternatively and or additionally any other suitable technique including without limitation those described above such as WiFi and or cellular triangulation may be employed to detect the current location of the wireless device. The detected location might be used locally by the wireless device and or location data might be transmitted to the application server for its use in accordance with the techniques described herein.

The method might further comprise determining a wireline location corresponding to the detected location of the wireless device block . In an aspect for example the system e.g. the application server and or the wireless device might search the list of known wireline locations for the detected location and or compare the detected location with each location in the list of known wireline locations for that subscriber. Any of several known location search comparison techniques can be used for this purpose. If the system finds a match to within any specified radius for the current location within the list of known wireline locations the system determines that the location of the wireless device corresponds to that wireline location i.e. that the subscriber is located at the matching known wireline location . At block the method comprises identifying a wireline telephone number associated with the determined wireline location for example by looking up in the database a wireline number that corresponds to the determined location of the wireless phone.

At block the method comprises providing enhanced wireline service s at the determined wireline location i.e. at a wireline telephone to which is assigned the wireline telephone number that corresponds to the location of the wireless device . In some cases for example the application server or wireless device will obtain from the list of wireline locations an identification of one or more enhanced services that should be provided when the subscriber is at the identified wireline location. The application server will reconfigured the appropriate telephony switch in order to provide the identified enhanced wireline services such as call forwarding . In other cases the wireless device might be involved in the provision of the enhanced wireline services such as click to call and no reconfiguration of the telephony switch might be needed.

As noted above embodiments can allow for the provision of a variety of enhanced wireline services. Merely by way of example illustrates a method of providing call forwarding as an enhanced wireline service. Among other things the method illustrated by can be used to automatically enable a call forwarding service to forward to a wireline telephone at the subscriber s current location some or all calls directed to the subscriber s home telephone number office telephone number wireless number etc.

At block the method comprises forwarding one or more calls to an identified wireline number e.g. a telephone number assigned to a wireline telephone at a known wireline location corresponding to the current location of the subscriber and or the subscriber s wireless device . As noted above in some cases the system will maintain a list of wireline locations to which calls should be forwarded based on the subscriber s presence and the system might also maintain a list of telephone numbers that should be forwarded to each of those locations the list of forwarded telephone numbers might be the same for all wireline locations or it might be different for each wireline location .

Based on a determination that the subscriber is at a known wireline location a determination that case be made using for example the method described with respect to above the system e.g. the wireless device the application server etc. might determine that calls should be forwarded from one or more forwarded numbers to the wireline telephone number associated with the wireline location that corresponds to the subscriber s current location based on the subscribers preferences which as noted above might be stored in the database with the list of known wireline locations . The system might also determine which numbers should be forwarded. Based on these determinations the application server reconfigures one or more telephony switches to forward to the wireline number associated with the subscriber s current location calls directed to i.e. intended by the caller to be terminated at the forwarded number s e.g. using conventional switch based call forwarding techniques. Any such calls therefore can be answered by the subscriber at the wireline telephone. In some cases the forwarded calls might be announced by a special ring tone or pattern etc. to indicate that they are forwarded calls.

In some cases if the system determines that the current location of the wireless device does not correspond to any known wireline location the system might instead forward the forwarded numbers to the number of the wireless device itself. Alternatively if the subscriber is not at a known location the system might disable forwarding altogether and or forward calls to a default telephone number e.g. the subscriber s home telephone number etc. a number specified by the subscriber and or the like.

In one inventive aspect certain embodiments automatically account for the subscriber s current location at any given time. Hence when a subscriber leaves one known location and or arrives at another known wireline location the system can adjust the provision of enhanced services e.g. call forwarding accordingly. Merely by way of example the system might automatically enable or disable call forwarding or change the wireline number to which calls are forwarded based on the changing location of the subscriber and or his wireless device.

Hence in accordance with some embodiments at block the system detects a second location of the subscriber and or the subscriber s wireless device and at block the method comprises determining a second wireline location corresponding to the second location of the subscriber e.g. as described above with respect to . In some cases if the second wireline location is a known wireline location with a corresponding wireline number the method might comprise determining a wireline number associated with the second wireline location block e.g. by looking up the number is the database of known locations and or using any of the number determination techniques described above. At block the system modifies the call forwarding service based on the second location of the subscriber. Merely by way of example if the system determines that the subscriber s current location corresponds to the subscriber s home the system might disable call forwarding altogether e.g. if the subscriber s home telephone number is the only forwarded number and or might reconfigure the appropriate telephony switches to forward calls from other forwarded numbers to the subscriber s home telephone number.

In other cases as noted above if the second location of the wireless device is determined not to correspond to any known wireline location the system might disable the call forwarding service altogether and or might re enable the call forwarding service to forward calls to a wireless subscriber number associated with the wireless device itself.

As noted above click to call functionality is another enhanced wireline service that can be provided by certain embodiments. illustrates a method that discloses a technique for providing click to call functionality in accordance with some embodiments.

The method comprises detecting an attempt to originate a call from a wireless device block . There are a variety of techniques that can be used to detect an attempt to originate a call from the wireless device some techniques might employ software local to the wireless device while others might be performed at the application server and or at a wireless switch. Merely by way of example in some cases detecting an attempt to originate a call might comprise receiving a selection of a contact e.g. from an address book application on the wireless device and or by detecting an attempt by the user to dial the contact on the wireless device as depicted by block . The wireless device for example might be configured with software to detect and or intercept an attempt to make outgoing call whether by selection of a contact or otherwise . In some cases the application might be configured to present the user with a choice of dialing the contact directly from the wireless device in conventional fashion or calling the contact from the wireline telephone at that location. In other cases the system might be configured to use the wireline telephone automatically.

Based on a determination e.g. in accordance with the description of above that the subscriber is at a known wireline location the software might intercept that attempt and or instruct the application server to place the call using a wireline telephone associated with the known wireline location. Alternatively a wireless switch might be equipped with a termination attempt trigger or the like which causes the switch to seek termination instructions from the application server. Based on the determined location of the wireless device the application server might instruct the wireless switch not to terminate the call and also might instruct the wireline telephony switch to place the call from the wireline number.

At block the system places a call from the wireline number corresponding to the wireline telephone at the location of the subscriber e.g. the location of the wireless device to the target number of the attempted call from the wireless device. There are a number of techniques that can be used to perform this operation. Merely by way of example one such technique is illustrated by blocks .

At block the system originates a first call to the wireline number. In an embodiment the application server instructs the telephony switch to originate a call from the switch to the wireline number. At block the system originates a second call to the target number i.e. the number that the subscriber attempted to call with the wireless device in similar fashion to the first call. At block the system e.g. the telephony switch based on instructions from the application server joins the first call with the second call. At that point the subscriber may carry on a voice conversation with a party at the target number using the wireline telephone at the subscriber s current location. There are a variety of techniques and in particular switch based techniques for joining two calls and any such technique may be used as appropriate.

It should be noted that the terms first call and second call do not denote any particular chronological ordering of the calls. For example the telephony switch might place both calls simultaneously. In other embodiments the system might first place the call to the target phone number and subsequently place a call to the number of the wireline telephone at that location joining the calls thereafter. Other techniques may also be used to place a call from the wireline telephone to the target number.

The computer system is shown comprising hardware elements that can be electrically coupled via a bus or may otherwise be in communication as appropriate . The hardware elements may include one or more processors including without limitation one or more general purpose processors and or one or more special purpose processors such as digital signal processing chips graphics acceleration processors and or the like one or more input devices which can include without limitation a mouse a keyboard and or the like and one or more output devices which can include without limitation a display device a printer and or the like.

The computer system may further include and or be in communication with one or more storage devices which can comprise without limitation local and or network accessible storage and or can include without limitation a disk drive a drive array an optical storage device solid state storage device such as a random access memory RAM and or a read only memory ROM which can be programmable flash updateable and or the like. Such storage devices may be configured to implement any appropriate data stores including without limitation various file systems database structures and or the like.

The computer system might also include a communications subsystem which can include without limitation a modem a network card wireless or wired an infra red communication device a wireless communication device and or chipset such as a Bluetooth device an 802.11 device a WiFi device a WiMax device a WWAN device cellular communication facilities etc. which can include any necessary radios and or antennas and or the like. The communications subsystem may permit data to be exchanged with a network such as the network described below to name one example with other computer systems and or with any other devices described herein. In many embodiments the computer system will further comprise a working memory which can include a RAM or ROM device as described above.

The computer system also may comprise software elements shown as being currently located within the working memory including an operating system device drivers executable libraries and or other code such as one or more application programs which may comprise computer programs provided by various embodiments and or may be designed to implement methods and or configure systems provided by other embodiments as described herein. Merely by way of example one or more procedures described with respect to the method s discussed above might be implemented as code and or instructions executable by a computer and or a processor within a computer in an aspect then such code and or instructions can be used to configure and or adapt a general purpose computer or other device to perform one or more operations in accordance with the described methods.

A set of these instructions and or code might be encoded and or stored on a non transitory computer readable storage medium such as the storage device s described above. In some cases the storage medium might be incorporated within a computer system such as the system . In other embodiments the storage medium might be separate from a computer system i.e. a removable medium such as a compact disc etc. and or provided in an installation package such that the storage medium can be used to program configure and or adapt a general purpose computer with the instructions code stored thereon. These instructions might take the form of executable code which is executable by the computer system and or might take the form of source and or installable code which upon compilation and or installation on the computer system e.g. using any of a variety of generally available compilers installation programs compression decompression utilities etc. then takes the form of executable code.

In particular embodiments in particular when the computer system serves as a wireless device the computer system might further comprise a location determination device . A GNSS receiver is one example of such a device although others are possible as well. In an aspect the location determination device communicates e.g. via the bus with other system components such that it can receive operation instructions from and provide data to other components such as the processor . Accordingly the location determination device can be used by the computer system to obtain location information in accordance with the techniques described above. It should be noted that the location determination device might be separate from the computer system and or might have its own processing and or communication facilities such as those described in conjunction with the computer system such that the location determination device can exchange data with the computer system e.g. via the computer system s communication subsystem .

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that substantial variations may be made in accordance with specific requirements. For example customized hardware such as programmable logic controllers field programmable gate arrays application specific integrated circuits and or the like might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets etc. or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

As mentioned above in one aspect some embodiments may employ a computer system such as the computer system to perform methods in accordance with various embodiments of the invention. According to a set of embodiments some or all of the procedures of such methods are performed by the computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions which might be incorporated into the operating system and or other code such as an application program contained in the working memory . Such instructions may be read into the working memory from another computer readable medium such as one or more of the storage device s . Merely by way of example execution of the sequences of instructions contained in the working memory might cause the processor s to perform one or more procedures of the methods described herein.

The terms machine readable medium and computer readable medium as used herein refer to any medium that participates in providing data that causes a machine to operation in a specific fashion. In an embodiment implemented using the computer system various computer readable media might be involved in providing instructions code to processor s for execution and or might be used to store and or carry such instructions code e.g. as signals . In many implementations a computer readable medium is a non transitory physical and or tangible storage medium. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical and or magnetic disks such as the storage device s . Volatile media includes without limitation dynamic memory such as the working memory . Transmission media includes without limitation coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus as well as the various components of the communication subsystem and or the media by which the communications subsystem provides communication with other devices . Hence transmission media can also take the form of waves including without limitation radio acoustic and or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications .

Common forms of physical and or tangible computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read instructions and or code.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to the processor s for execution. Merely by way of example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk and or optical disc of a remote computer. A remote computer might load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions as signals over a transmission medium to be received and or executed by the computer system . These signals which might be in the form of electromagnetic signals acoustic signals optical signals and or the like are all examples of carrier waves on which instructions can be encoded in accordance with various embodiments of the invention.

The communications subsystem and or components thereof generally will receive the signals and the bus then might carry the signals and or the data instructions etc. carried by the signals to the working memory from which the processor s retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by the working memory may optionally be stored on a storage device either before or after execution by the processor s .

While certain features and aspects have been described with respect to exemplary embodiments one skilled in the art will recognize that numerous modifications are possible. For example the methods and processes described herein may be implemented using hardware components software components and or any combination thereof. Further while various methods and processes described herein may be described with respect to particular structural and or functional components for ease of description methods provided by various embodiments are not limited to any particular structural and or functional architecture but instead can be implemented on any suitable hardware firmware and or software configuration. Similarly while certain functionality is ascribed to certain system components unless the context dictates otherwise this functionality can be distributed among various other system components in accordance with the several embodiments.

Moreover while the procedures of the methods and processes described herein are described in a particular order for ease of description unless the context dictates otherwise various procedures may be reordered added and or omitted in accordance with various embodiments. Moreover the procedures described with respect to one method or process may be incorporated within other described methods or processes likewise system components described according to a particular structural architecture and or with respect to one system may be organized in alternative structural architectures and or incorporated within other described systems. Hence while various embodiments are described with or without certain features for ease of description and to illustrate exemplary aspects of those embodiments the various components and or features described herein with respect to a particular embodiment can be substituted added and or subtracted from among other described embodiments unless the context dictates otherwise. Consequently although several exemplary embodiments are described above it will be appreciated that the invention is intended to cover all modifications and equivalents within the scope of the following claims.

