---

title: Computerized method and system for managing an email input facility in a networked secure collaborative exchange environment
abstract: In embodiments of the present invention improved capabilities are described for managing an email input facility in a networked secure collaborative computer data exchange environment, wherein a secure email input facility for accepting non-secure email from outside the exchange into the secure collaborative computer data exchange environment, wherein the non-secure email is received and the non-secure email and/or the content delivered thereby is stored as secure content in a location of the secure exchange server related to at least one of the sender of the email, the subject line of the non-secure email, the destination address of the email within the exchange, and the content of the email.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09596227&OS=09596227&RS=09596227
owner: Intralinks, Inc.
number: 09596227
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160511
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 828 896 filed on Aug. 18 2015 which is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 871 593 filed on Apr. 26 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 148 417. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 871 593 claims the benefit of the following provisional applications U.S. Patent Application No. 61 639 576 filed Apr. 27 2012 U.S. Patent Application No. 61 680 115 filed Aug. 6 2012 U.S. Patent Application No. 61 702 587 filed Sep. 18 2012 U.S. Patent Application No. 61 715 989 filed Oct. 19 2012 U.S. Patent Application No. 61 734 890 filed Dec. 7 2012 and U.S. Patent Application No. 61 783 868 filed Mar. 14 2013. Each of the above applications is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Despite the availability of the Internet there is still no entirely satisfactory way for people at different companies or other entities to have the benefits of private network security such as for collaborative work between enterprises on a daily basis and for ad hoc alliances i.e. different sets of entities coming together to function as one mega or meta entity for the duration of some particular project. In such cases the time and expense of actually wiring a network between two or more companies or other entities and agreeing on one common software package or standard presents a barrier to conventional network solutions. In addition any new process for the sharing of content has in the past generally required the user to adopt new workflow components applications and habits that tend to be disruptive to the user s normal day to day workflow routine e.g. when working internal to their enterprise and with personal use. Simply using the Internet remains imperfectly secure for the sharing of confidential information without some pre arranged secure encryption processes has been cumbersome and unproductive especially in today s increasing use of personal devices being incorporated into the workflow. There is a need for such systems and for users to utilize the systems in such a way that does not force them to adopt new infrastructure software and business and personal processes in their daily workflow in order to achieve a shared and potentially secure extended work environment.

Thus there are still yet unsolved problems associated with different groups of companies or other entities to sharing securely over an expanding global network environment.

The present invention provides a networked secure collaborative computer data exchange environment establishing a secure exchange server based environment between users of at least two business entities where the secure exchange server environment is managed by an intermediate business entity and providing at least one of a community facility an amendment voting facility an e signature facility a dashboard facility an email in facility a viewer facility and a mobile device viewing interface providing an improved method for different groups of companies or other entities to sharing securely over an expanding global network environment.

In embodiments a method for managing a networked secure collaborative computer data exchange environment may be provided the method including establishing by a secure exchange server controlled by an intermediate business entity a client login data authentication procedure that allows at least one client computing device of a plurality of client computing devices operated by users of a plurality of business entities to access the secure exchange server wherein communications between the secure exchange server and the plurality of client computing devices is through a communications network storing by the secure exchange server at least one client login authentication data for each of the plurality of client computing devices receiving content from a first of the plurality of client computing devices by the secure exchange server permitting access to the content for a subset of the plurality of computing devices through an exchange content access facility wherein the exchange content access facility is managed by at least one business entity of the plurality of business entities and granting by the exchange server access to the content to a second of the plurality of client computing devices when the secure exchange server receives from the second of the plurality of client computing devices its client login authentication data provided that the second of the plurality of client computing devices is one of the subset of the plurality of computing devices.

In embodiments methods may provide for an exchange community facility where the users of the plurality of user client computing devices establish an informational profile that is made accessible to other users of the plurality of user client computers and are enabled to interact with one another based on the content of the informational profile.

In embodiments methods may provide an amendment voting facility for conducting a process of voting when the content relates to a proposed amendment to an agreement wherein the amendment voting facility enables users of the subset of the plurality of computing devices to vote on the proposed amendment.

In embodiments methods may provide for an electronic signature facility for managing a process of signing the received content by at least one of the subset of the plurality of user computing devices wherein the electronic signature facility includes a signature viewer interface that restricts viewing of the content for signing.

In embodiments methods may provide for a secure email input facility for accepting non secure email from outside the exchange into the secure collaborative computer data exchange environment wherein the non secure email is received and stored as secure email in the secure exchange server.

In embodiments methods may provide for a secure content viewer facility for the user to securely view the content on the user s client computing device wherein the secure view is provided through a viewing restriction based on a user action.

In embodiments methods may provide for mobile device viewing interface for interfacing with the networked secure collaborative computer data exchange environment through a mobile device.

These and other systems methods objects features and advantages of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description of the preferred embodiment and the drawings. All documents mentioned herein are hereby incorporated in their entirety by reference.

While the invention has been described in connection with certain preferred embodiments other embodiments would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art and are encompassed herein.

The present invention may be used for a secure exchange service alternatively referred to as an exchange or exchange service throughout this disclosure where many types of communications are required between different parties that are associating for a temporary transaction or project but as competitors or for other reasons are not suitable for a permanent communication network such as an intranet or enterprise network such as a LAN or WAN as might be used for a single government agency single corporation or other single enterprise or institution. Transaction projects involving financial transactions and projects involving complex legal agreements such as mergers acquisitions and the like are situations in the which the methods and systems described herein are particularly suitable however these are not necessarily the only sort of projects appropriate as any project in which parties need to share confidential information across entities outside the boundaries of the network of a single entity may benefit from the methods and systems described herein.

In an example transactions within the banking industry may provide a situation where a secure exchange service may be particularly applicable where ad hoc syndicates are formed under the leadership of one or more lead banks to permit a number of agent or associate banks to participate in a major loan to a borrower. Such loans have become more common and may involve loans in excess of one billion dollars. Syndication of such large loans is used since any one bank is not prepared to lend such a large amount to a single customer. Conventionally proposed terms of a loan are negotiated between the borrower and the lead banks each in consultation with its advisors such as legal counsel public relations consultants accountants and insurance carriers. In some instances some advisors may be in house advisors as employees of a given entity and thus constitute an internal team. However the advisors in many instances may be independently associated with external entities such as law firms or major accounting firms and thus constitute either external teams or combinations of the above. The lead bank s negotiates with the borrower to arrive at terms and conditions for the loan such as the interest rate repayment schedule security and the bank s fee for processing and syndicating the loan. The lead bank may agree to underwrite the entire loan in which case the lead bank uses syndication to create sub loans between it and other banks to raise the funds for the loan. All of these transactions require management of voluminous amounts of documentation most of which is confidential and whose disclosure could result in huge damages to the borrower or lenders. Thus it would be desirable to provide an exchange as described here which enables secure document transmission between users over a global communication network without requiring the users to communicate in advance to establish an encryption method. In this example the exchange service may provide a suitable level of security with respect to each of the shared transactions among companies that commonly may be vigorous competitors with numerous confidential documents that the companies do not want uncontrollably shared among other members of the loan project group or accessible by outsiders generally. Substantially secure communications is particularly of the utmost concern to all parties to a syndicated loan transaction the borrower the lead bank and the associate banks. A virtual network system provided through the exchange may readily provide substantial security to ensure that information and communications among all the various parties are secure.

In embodiments the exchange may enable electronic transmission and reception of confidential documents over a global communication network such as the Internet for distributing electronic documents containing sensitive information or data to selected entities for notifying intended recipients of the availability of such documents for tracking access downloading and uploading of such documents and the like.

In embodiments the exchange may only be accessed by authorized computers using an acceptable log in procedure including user name and password. Communications within the exchange may establish a communication session based upon a selected security protocol and thereafter messages are transmitted between using such secure encryption. Communications may be exchanged via a secure encrypted communication session using a selected encryption protocol and may deny access if a secure session cannot be established at a desired secure level.

In embodiments the exchange may provide a fully provisioned turnkey service for users where once the user s enterprise has established an account through the exchange documents in electronic form may be uploaded to the secure site maintained through the exchange host server where a variety of secure collaborative communications options may be chosen including document storage e mail video broadcasting video conferencing white boarding and the like to augment and manage interactive access to the documents including a user graphical interface for managing user interactions with one or more exchanges.

In embodiments the exchange may provide a secure site for placing documents and messages to be transmitted over a secure virtual network and allows authorized users to read or edit messages according to their level of authorization. Any documents that are edited may be immediately available on the system so that other persons involved in the exchange has access to the edited or modified documents immediately. In addition the exchange may provide tracking of each document to allow selected users to see who has had access to the messages and documents and who has modified or edited any of the documents.

In embodiments the exchange may provide a centralized firewall that may be employed to protect confidential information so that no unauthorized access to such information occurs. A firewall such as may be effectively used for corporate intranets may be applied in each exchange. Groups of users such as on a virtual network may be treated like a remote corporate office and restricted by firewall protocols from uncontrollable access to the information from other users. In addition if needed respective inter user firewalls may be established to prevent one user from accessing information in the host site of another user. The exchange may be particularly suitable for communication among multiple unrelated groups of users since a centralized firewall simplifies the logistics of each user having to separately provide access through their own respective local firewalls. In such a centralized architecture the host server as opposed to being processed at each respective user may conveniently process server access security data. Similarly system backup and recovery may be better handled by a centralized backup and recovery system as opposed to such recovery tasks being separately handled at a multiplicity of local sites.

As depicted in a plurality of exchange service users of the exchange service may exchange data such as documents messages data and the like between a secure host server and a plurality of user computers A B across a network e.g. the Internet in a secure manner such as only accessed by authorized user computers using an acceptable log in procedure. In embodiments the user computers may interface with the network through a network server a mail server and the like and in association with an enterprise intranet where a firewall is present between the user computer and the network and where the exchange is conducted between the user computers and the host computer through a secure exchange across the network and through the network server mail server and the like. In another embodiment the user computers may interact in the exchange with the host server across the network while away from or in the absence of the enterprise intranet and enterprise firewall. For instance the user may be able to access the exchange while at home such as using a mobile enterprise computer a personally owned computer a mobile device and the like.

In embodiments the exchange host server may be distributed over a plurality of server computers and therefore host server should be viewed as an illustrative example of one of such multiple servers. In this way the server computers may work together to provide essentially seamless access to a large number of users on various platforms with varying communications speeds. The server computers may run under server management software which in turn may be responsible for coordination of services maintaining state and system status monitoring security and other administrative functions. In embodiments a user computer having a suitable Web browser may directly access the host server where the exchange may not need to provide each user with subscriber application software such as including software modules for access activation viewing communications and the like relative to the exchange service.

In embodiments whenever an exchange of data is initiated such as by a document being received at the host server connected to a host database the host server may extract the address of the intended recipient and create a notification to the recipient s of the existence of the data at the host server. The notification may contain the URL for the host server. However the recipient may not be able to access the message unless the recipient is authorized to use the system such as the recipient needing to be a registered user and have an assigned password to access the data or other repository at the host server where data is stored such as on a user database A or B. If the intended recipient is granted access to the host server the recipient may then locate the message intended for them by browsing through all messages to which the recipient has been granted access.

While the notification sent to the intended recipient may be sent using standard Internet protocol without encryption once the user computer contacts the host server the server may establish a secure encrypted communication session using a selected encryption protocol. The host server may deny access if a secure session cannot be established at a desired secure level such as 128 bit encryption.

In embodiments exchange services for different users may utilize separate software structured server databases A B. For example company A and company B may use the same secure host server but each company s data may be maintained in separate databases A and B although perhaps in the same physical data storage facility. This feature offers the advantage of allowing the host server to be customized for each company. For example when the external user accesses the host server the host server may recognize the user and associate the user with a particular one of the companies A and B. Using this recognition the host server may present a customized browser interface which makes the host server look like the selected company. To the external user it may appear that they have been connected directly to the company server rather than the host server. Thus the present invention may allow a user to securely send data such that the network connection is substantially transparent to the user. Further the system may provide customization of the remote host server for each of a plurality of different users such that an external user accessing the remote server may appear to be connected to an internal client server.

For example the distribution facility may allow the host server to electronically distribute data using secure communications among the plurality of users. The usage facility may allow the host server to monitor the usage of the network to permit the users to be billed for the network service. The host server may be set up to manage a plurality of separate virtual networks concurrently with each such virtual network representing a different client such as company A and company B. Further a community facility may provide for users of different companies to be exposed to one other even if the different companies have not had any previous contacts e.g. through a shared exchange and a dashboard facility may provide companies to manage exchanges documents contacts communications preferences and the like.

The host server may offer a high level of security for all data by employing substantially secure network connections and by means of security and encryption technologies developed for networks such as may be readily incorporated in the encryption facility . Additionally the host server may provide highly secure access control by way of the user authorization facility that may allow only authorized personnel to access individual messages and related documents and communications. The viewer facility may be able to protect documents from unauthorized viewing printing saving and the like and a mobile device interface facility may enable secure viewing on a mobile device such as a personal tablet being used away from an enterprise network. The Email in facility may provide for the ability to add content to an exchange using regular email such as that is sent to a designated secure email address.

The host server may give each user the ability to electronically link or be interconnected via a link facility with any number of other users. Although data may be preferably formatted in a particular form such as may be readily implemented with a commercially available document exchange program other formats could be optionally accommodated using a suitable format conversion facility . The multimedia facility may also be used to process data into a format suitable for presentation to the user in forms other than text such as audio still or moving images and the like.

The virtual network viewer may also include a multimedia viewer facility configured to for example provide viewing of interactive multimedia or mixed media memoranda through suitable decoders such as audio decoders Joint Photographic Experts Group JPEG still image decoders and Moving Pictures Experts Group MPEG moving image decoders. The virtual network viewer may also support various collaborative communications options such as e mail video conferencing and white boarding which are enabled for a given transaction pursuant to instructions from the appropriate user. Of course the range of multimedia capability and the collaborative communications options may vary depending on the various groupware facilities available to the user.

The notarization facility may be provided to electronically certify any electronic data forwarded to users such as incorporating electronic signature technology and the like. The network service facility may conveniently be used to display various data in connection with the network service such as additional services that may be available by the network service to the users. The above facilities may work jointly with the email facility the interface facility and the like to send notices of data for exchange and interface with to securely pass data.

A virtual network viewer or browser may conveniently provide the end user with an easy to use graphical interface to data and other particularly confidential information on the network service s virtual network service. The virtual network service may provide identification of services available over the virtual network as well as a variety of options for accessing and retrieving data. The virtual network viewer may include the transaction identification facility that for example may enable a user to quickly find and access information. The virtual network viewer may automatically provide a suitable connection to the user to the virtual network service through the sign on facility . The viewer may also prompt the user to input one or more passwords or identifications which should be recognized by either the authorized editor facility or the authorized reader facility in order to access information on a database.

For the convenience of the users some data offered through the virtual network service may be designed as interactive multimedia documents that will include video graphics audio and other multimedia elements. Multimedia communications may provide the user with a wide variety of information in addition to that provided by more standard text data.

By way of an example a syndication desk i.e. one or more individuals authorized to be responsible for the management of a syndicated transaction of a lead user may be able to broadcast and or selectively send e mail messages processed by the syndication facility to associate users and vice versa. For example amendment data processed by the amendment voting facility may be used to vote on changes to a transaction document amongst authorized users. The amended document may be conveniently distributed via email using the e mail facility for providing associate users with up to the minute information about the transaction. Amendments or messages may be appended to the document at the host site of the network service where they may be ordinarily viewed by accessing the virtual network service that is authorized to access the document. E mail messages or amendments may also be downloaded for printing or for attachment to local documents. Similarly comment data in connection with a transaction may be processed through the comment facility for appropriate distribution to authorized users. Transaction documents may also be signed by authorized users through the e signing facility .

Referring to the community facility may provide community social and the like facilities as part of the system such as to be able to expand a user s contacts list through exposure to other users who use or are otherwise associated with the facilities and more generally to make it easier for users to find and connect with other users who may have mutual interests. The community facility may allow community users such as the plurality of exchange service users and plurality of other community users to find one another using industry specific profiles such as provided by a profile manager to find other community users invite users to communicate by sending invitations through a communications manager see status of invitation that have been sent or received and the like. Through a community user interface and associated profile manager communications manager and profile search facility the community facility may provide the user with a larger visibility to the plurality of users in the system allow them to declare how they want to be viewed control whether they want to be viewed determine whether they can participate or not enable them to be anonymous e.g. profile only allow them to be fully visible to other users allow them to be available to users within just a particular industry and the like. If a user is in a particular industry they may be able to view a basic description of that community as well as to other industries that the user determines to be beneficial. The system may be provided a profile window in the community user interface that is set up based on industry or technical specifications such as for private equity M A finance legal and the like. There may be a variety of different types of user profiles available such as in connection with transactions a buyer side an investor side an advisor side an expert side a seller side and the like. The community user interface may provide a user set up through a step through process wizard where the user selects industries subsets of industries and the like. Users may be as specific or as general as they wish and position themselves in the community as seeking opportunities presenting opportunities presenting themselves as an expert to be called on to facilitate and the like. The system may provide for location information specify a deal type specify a deal size and the like to help people who are searching for these profiles. The user may be able to upload attachments examples and the like. A visibility setting may be provided such as available to community members where the user is optionally able to remain anonymous. If the user chooses to not be anonymous then they may be visible to users immediately but still protected in the system. In an example a user may be a buyer and an advisor where they can see their own profile or sub profile edit the sub profile add another profile and the like.

In embodiments the community facility may provide for search capabilities through the profile search facility such as starting a new search saving searches saving the history of a search and the like to begin interacting with the profiles of users. The searcher may be able to search by a particular industry investors deal size deal type geography type of profile and the like. The user may begin a search and generate results including the sub profiles in the system that matched the search criteria. In addition there may be a variety of visibility levels associated with the searches. For example a search may return three matches but where one match is a user that is an anonymous user. In this instance information may be withheld as to specifics but with the ability to see more general profile attributes such as a user s title. There may also be search indicators associated with previous searches matches contacts and the like such as with an icon to indicate past communication and the like. In embodiments the user may use a filter set to find a group the user wants to multi select grab and move into another list.

Another feature of the community facility may be an activity index or similar measure such as for judging how active a user is on the system. For instance a user performing M A activities on the system may provide a qualified view indicating whether they are a current M A buyer or not such as showing how active they are. The system may also find information that indicates activity from other sources and import that information to the system thus providing a fuller indication of the user s activity level within the system such as how many deals they might be working on.

Another feature of the community facility may enable a user to entice other users who are anonymous to be visible in order to initiate an interaction with them. For instance a user may contact an anonymous user and add them to an exchange after the invitation to connect has been accepted. The user may click on an anonymous user and send an invitation to them. In this instance the sending user may become more visible to the anonymous user who is being invited. A subject line and a note regarding why the user is interested in contact them may be provided. An invitations list may show what invitations have been sent and the system may provide for a historical thread for the user s activity.

In embodiments the system may keep a user s information anonymous until the user accepts an invitation from the inviting user but where the anonymous user can still interact with the inviting user while still staying anonymous. The system may therefore provide a robust interaction facility at the profile level email etc. without requiring actual acceptance of the invitation and enable a continued dialog without revealing who they were e.g. to get additional information clarification etc. . As the interaction goes back and forth the goal may be to wind up in an acceptance state but the system may also provide a means of blocking communications such as after the user accepts or declines . The system may support an interaction until the user provides an acceptance at which time the user s contact information may become visible be provided a download of profile information include the user in a contacts list be recommended to an exchange and the like. Once the user accepts both parties may become visible to one another including providing a history of the interaction.

Referring to the community facility may provide a user interface for user interaction with the community facility such as a with a profile tab for a user. In embodiments a new profile may be added through the user interface. Referring to the user interface may provide for identification of a sub file selection of an industry selection of a geography setting profile details setting visibility adjusting a privacy policy and the like. In embodiments a view for setting visibility may be provided where the user may specify visibility to community members such as being visible to community members visible but anonymous to community members e.g. contact information and attachment s are hidden visible only the user and the like. Referring to an example profile is provided for an M A seller seeking investors the profile including an industry focus materials deal sizes 

The community facility user interface may provide for a plurality of tabs such as a hub exchanges tasks documents people approvals maintenance forms calendar dashboards fund data collaboration and the like. Referring to a people tab may include contacts groups community and the like and a community tab may show community invitations. When the community tab is displayed there may be search results displayed no search results displayed a button for starting a new search and the like. shows an example search result including two visible users an anonymous user and the like.

There may be actions the user may take with regard to a search result such as to make contact open an invitation view detail download a vCard request to add a user to an exchange manage a user exchange access and the like. When a user is anonymous an indication of such may be provided in place of their name such as User is Anonymous blanks in place of location phone number email contact information company and the like. provides an example for an interface for composing an invitation. Users that receive an invitation may be asked to accept or decline the invitation and the sending user may receive replies as email alerts e.g. such as available under the community invitations section of the user interface . The invitation may include a subject note number of users the invitation is being sent to information about the sending user e.g. name email ID phone number a cc function and the like. An invitation may be provide to a visible user an anonymous user logged in users logged out users and the like. Successfully sending an invitation may result in an acknowledgement such as an invitation alert a text alert and the like. shows an example of an alert sent indication. An indication of a successful alert sent may also include a dialog indication a title of the invitation the body of the invitation and the like. Users that receive a note may be able to reply directly to the sending user s email address as shown in an example in . shows an example of what user information may be left blank when the user is an anonymous user such as email contact information organization position industry functional area address information phone number s fax number and the like. shows at least a portion of the information that may be hidden such as in this example that the user is an M A advisor expert area of expertise is investment banking industry focus areas e.g. industrials financials utilities telecommunication services health care information technology energy consumer discretionary materials consumer staples deal sizes geography and the like. shows an example of a user inbox showing the invitation alert. shows an example of options available to the recipient of an invitation such as to accept or decline the invitation where shows an embodiment decline invitation screen and shows an embodiment overview for invitations sent received accepted declined and the like. shows a running communications thread between two users in association with an invitation where as shown the accept decline options may continue to be presented to the recipient of the invitation until they accept or decline the invitation. shows an embodiment contacts search.

In embodiments a method for managing a networked secure collaborative computer data exchange environment may be provided the method including establishing by a secure exchange server controlled by an intermediate business entity a client login data authentication procedure that allows at least one client computing device of a plurality of client computing devices operated by users of a plurality of business entities to access the secure exchange server wherein communications between the secure exchange server and the plurality of client computing devices is through a communications network storing by the secure exchange server at least one client login authentication data for each of the plurality of client computing devices receiving content from a first of the plurality of client computing devices by the secure exchange server permitting access to the content for a subset of the plurality of computing devices through an exchange content access facility wherein the exchange content access facility is managed by at least one business entity of the plurality of business entities granting by the exchange server access to the content to a second of the plurality of client computing devices when the secure exchange server receives from the second of the plurality of client computing devices its client login authentication data provided that the second of the plurality of client computing devices is one of the subset of the plurality of computing devices and providing an exchange community facility where the users of the plurality of client computing devices establish an informational profile that is made accessible to other users of the plurality of client computers and are enabled to interact with one another based on the content of the informational profile.

In embodiments access to the exchange server by client processors may be through a host server controlled by the business entity that controls the client processor. The client computing devices may be at least one of owned and managed by at least one of the plurality of business entities. The client computing devices may be owned by individual users. The secure exchange server may be at least one of a plurality of exchange servers. The content may be at least one of a document a spreadsheet a message data an image audio content video content multimedia content and the like. The content may be transferred to the secure exchange server via encrypted data transmission.

In embodiments the content of the informational profile may include contact information business association and the like. The exchange community facility may provide users with facilities for sending an invitation to another user for communication. After the invitation is sent the exchange community facility may provide a status of the invitation related to the invitation being at least one of being sent received and read. The informational profile for the sending user may be restricted as anonymous until the receiving user accepts the invitation for communication. The exchange community facility may provide for informational profile viewing control where the viewing control allows the informational profile to be viewed by other users by a selected group of users and the like. The exchange community facility may provide a graphical user interface through which a user manages their informational profile and interactions with other users where the graphical user interface includes a search engine interface provides an activity index measure of how active a user is on the exchange community facility and the like. An informational profile may be categorized by professional activity such as including a buyer seller investor expert and the like. The informational profile may include credentials for an individual an indication of an area of interest e.g. a type of project in which an individual is interested in participating and the like.

In embodiments a method for managing a networked secure collaborative computer data exchange environment may be provided establishing by a secure exchange server controlled by an intermediate business entity an authentication procedure for a client login authentication data that allows at least one of a plurality of user client computing devices operated by users of at least two business entities to access the at least one secure exchange server wherein communications between the secure exchange server and the plurality of user client computing devices is through a communications network storing by the secure exchange server the at least one client login authentication data for each of the plurality of client computing devices receiving from a first of the plurality of user client computing devices content associating access by the secure exchange server to the content to a subset of the plurality of user computing devices through an exchange content access facility the exchange content access facility managed by at least one of the plurality of business entities granting by the exchange server access to the content of the secure exchange server to a second of the plurality of user client computing devices when the secure exchange server receives a client login authentication data from the second of the plurality of user client computing devices and dependent upon the second of the plurality of user client computing devices being one of the subset of the plurality of user client computing devices and providing an exchange community facility where the users of the plurality of client computing devices establish an informational profile that is made accessible to other users of the plurality of client computers and are enabled to interact with one another based on the content of the informational profile wherein the interaction is executed as an anonymous interaction where the anonymous interaction provides a subset of content from the informational profile.

Referring to the amendment voting facility may provide for managing integrating and facilitating a process where agency clients executing a transaction e.g. a syndicated loan may vote on modifications or amendments to a transaction or transaction content including an auditable process aggregated vote metrics centralized vote processing and the like. The auditing process may utilize vote documentation consent forms signature page tracking digital distribution vote collection and signature page submission and the like where the these documents may be fully traceable. The distribution vote collection and signature page submission may all occur online speeding the process and better ensuring transparency. Aggregating vote metrics may utilize weighted voting calculations for consent percentage visualization of responses e.g. which lenders have done what and the like where vote calculations may be weighted by commitment percentage and where a visual display of user responses may make it easy to see which users have taken action and what those actions are. Centralized vote processing may include sending reminder alerts completion of approval tasks completion of a vote and the like. Features of the amendment voting facility may include amendment templates for quick configuration and launch lender voting that includes signature pate collection e.g. with electronic submission of signature pages task lists for consent an amendment voting user interface to track progress and statistics e.g. group tracking simplified reminders export for vote tally and reporting amendments within existing exchanges and the like.

Referring to depicts an embodiment flow process diagram for the amendment voting facility where an agency team initiates a vote response inquiry such as including documents amendments signature pages due dates automatic alerts and the like. Lenders may then receive an alert including task assignments such as for external counsel the agency team participants e.g. lenders and the like. Documents e.g. memos signature pages may be downloaded and tracked . Signature pages such as a memo with a signature page may be signed and submitted as a response. Participants e.g. administrator agency external counsel may receive the vote response . In an external process votes may be weighted such as based on committed dollar amounts on an agent s records. The process may be finalized such as with posting totals e.g. for an agent back team where members of the process e.g. lenders and borrowers in a loan process are notified. In embodiments the amendment voting facility may reduce or eliminate the manual process surrounding a vote collection and consent process such as associated with a load process and helps the user efficiently prioritize a vote collection strategy.

In an example on a syndicated loan one agency bank may be in charge and have a number of lenders supporting that loan often hundreds or even in excess of a thousand such lenders. As proposed modifications or amendments are made each may need to be disseminated have users react to it such as providing information making selections and the like be returned with appropriate documentation to the agency bank and the like. A typical process is conventionally performed offline where banks are required to have signing authorities pen ink sign and re submit to the agency bank. Further to the example when a new amendment comes up the agency bank may create a new transaction exchange environment for the amendment process. Through a data link the lender groups of members of those groups may be pushed into the new exchange environment such that each of them appears as a participant in the exchange. Data relating to all current positions of the lenders the amounts of their financial positions with respect to the particular loan or loans may also be pushed into the exchange so that it is available for further processing. In embodiments the current position of a user with respect to the transaction structure may have a bearing on the voting such as the weight given to a user s vote minimum amounts related to the amendment and the like. Such amounts may be stored and retrieved for processing by the exchange. For instance an agency bank may ask lenders to confirm their understanding of their positions in the process some or all of the data with respect to positions may be pre populated into the system and carried through into the transaction and the like.

In embodiments the amendment voting facility may allow for the naming of an amendment vote a date for the vote a vote distribution inclusion of associated documents facility for signature providing page submissions inclusion of instructions to voters a process of approval a step for outside counsel to review and the like. Once the announcement for the vote is sent out an administrator agent may be able to view the tasks that have gone out to what individuals and groups and the status of the voting. Features of the amendment voting facility may include import and export of commitment data support of amendment vote collection workflow creation of vote template configurations configuration of election forms display of an amendment voting graphical user interface dashboard configuration of signature pages access for an administrator to complete tasks facility for client specific amendment vote definition and the like. Import and export may include users ability to populate a deal structure automatically e.g. from a source file create a list of lenders groups and tranches commitment information on a new deal exchange reconcile an existing deal structure generate reports e.g. listing commitment amounts for each participant updating commitments and the like. Support of amendment vote collection workflow may include support of a plurality of different amendment types and allow users to create process definitions available for run time execution and the like where the different amendment types may include a simple yes no a yes no with signature consent no consent amend and extend and the like. Amendment vote collection workflow may include specification of due dates and time collection of election options distribution of documentation the ability to edit voting parameters and the like. Creation of vote template configurations may include support of vote template configuration creation such as to encapsulate the amendment vote process for document control management including users setting up owners monitors and vote elements once and reusing for subsequent votes providing consistent language and instructions and documentation across transactions and votes setting up vote types that may be adjusted as needed and the like. The election form may be configured to allow users to dynamically generate election forms based on group participant relationships e.g. lenders only having visibility to cases they have access to . Display of an amendment voting dashboard may include view of a list of multiple amendments initiated for a particular transaction view of details of the process e.g. list of lenders and their related status such s progress against a task view of participant contact and additional information and the like. Configuration of the signature page may include custom text a logo and the like where users may update and maintain their own custom signature pages such as for all transactions per transaction per vote and the like.

Continuing with the syndicated loan example a lender may receive an email alert that they are invited into a new amendment task process. They may then be asked to login where they are brought into the task flow that came from the alert. Tasks may include instructions document review election options and the like. Pre populated information may also be provided in association with the task. The user may record their vote and save any amendments associated with their elections. Their election and amendments may be printable where the user may then take that document to the signatory to have it signed. In this instance all of the information including instructions may be included in the hard copy for the lender and where the signing indicates legal consent. In this way there may be one single entry point of information where the lender receives the document to be signed has it signed and is provided a facility for loading the document back into the system. In embodiments an e signature and described herein may also be utilized for signing the document and entry into the system.

In embodiments a user may be provided the user interface to view the exchanges that are running amendments to see tasks generated and what state they are in to view individual tasks for a particular lender to view signature pages e.g. where all of the election option information is carried and the like. Custom fields may also be provided such as to allow users to change commitments. In embodiments users may see information as the data is populated even before signatures are applied. A user may need to perform a calculation such as to weight each vote to see how close they are to carrying the amendment. The system may enable the user to export data to a document e.g. a spreadsheet for performing the calculation separate from the system and to monitor the amendment process and changes thereto. For instance and continuing with the loan syndication example an administrator agent may be most interested in monitoring response levels and challenges to the current commitment levels. For instance if only three users are seen to have any challenge on their commitment amounts then the administrator may need to handle those first which may be a priority if there is a discrepancy. The user may also be interested in those who are planning to take action e.g. increase their commitment reduce their commitment by how much their commitment may change and the like . Ultimately the agency bank may have the final say and so the system may provide them with priority and so enable them to decide on whether to allow the changes or not.

In embodiments a method for managing a networked secure collaborative computer data exchange environment the method including establishing by a secure exchange server controlled by an intermediate business entity a client login data authentication procedure that allows at least one client computing device of a plurality of client computing devices operated by users of a plurality of business entities to access the secure exchange server wherein communications between the secure exchange server and the plurality of client computing devices is through a communications network storing by the secure exchange server at least one client login authentication data for each of the plurality of client computing devices receiving content from a first of the plurality of client computing devices by the secure exchange server permitting access to the content for a subset of the plurality of computing devices through an exchange content access facility wherein the exchange content access facility is managed by at least one business entity of the plurality of business entities granting by the exchange server access to the content to a second of the plurality of client computing devices when the secure exchange server receives from the second of the plurality of client computing devices its client login authentication data provided that the second of the plurality of client computing devices is one of the subset of the plurality of computing devices and providing an amendment voting facility for conducting a process of voting when the content relates to a proposed amendment to an agreement wherein the amendment voting facility enables users of the subset of the plurality of computing devices to vote on the proposed amendment.

In embodiments access to the exchange server by client processors may be through a host server controlled by the business entity that controls the client processor. The client computing devices may be at least one of owned and managed by at least one of the plurality of business entities. The client computing devices may be owned by individual users. The secure exchange server may be at least one of a plurality of exchange servers. The content may be at least one of a document a spreadsheet a message data an image audio content video content multimedia content and the like. The content may be transferred to the secure exchange server via encrypted data transmission.

In embodiments the process of voting on the proposed amendment may be traceable such as traceability including tracing vote documentation consent forms signature pages digital distribution vote collection signature page submission and the like. The amendment voting facility may provide for the aggregating of vote metrics for tracking the process of voting amongst the users of the subset of the plurality of computing devices such as aggregating vote metrics utilizing weighted voting calculations for consent percentage and visualization of responses. The amendment voting facility may provide for a vote graphical user interface dashboard to track progress and statistics such as where the tracking of progress and statistics includes group tracking reminders export for vote tally and reporting and the like. The amendment voting facility may provide for relative weighting of votes amongst the voting users. The amendment voting facility may provide for management of the voting process including a date for the vote a vote distribution list inclusion of associated documents facility for signature providing page submissions inclusion of instructions to voters a process of approval a step for outside counsel to review and the like. A vote may be cast as a yes no vote a yes no vote with signature a consent and the like. A voting form may be provided where the voting form is configured to allow users to dynamically generate voting forms such as where the dynamically generated voting forms are based on user participant relationships. The voting form may include a user customizable text or logo.

Referring to the secure electronic signature facility also referred to herein as e signature facility or e signing herein may support the process of providing documents for signature and for a user e signing and sending the e signed documents back to the sender. In embodiments the electronic signature facility may provide for secure viewing of the document signing such as through face recognition to determine the number of people viewing the monitor on which the signing is being executed and or utilizing a digital photo of a user to verify the user is who they say they are utilizing biometric authentication utilizing screen obfuscation to ensure only authorized users are viewing the document for signing and the like. For instance a computing device being used for e signature may have a camera that views and detects the surrounding environment to determine how many people are currently viewing the screen and if a condition exists where there is not only one person viewing the screen the screen may obfuscate the document being e signed such as blurring blanking screening and the like. For example if the computer device detects that no one is viewing or multiple people are viewing the screen the screen may blank out the document. In another instance the computing device may utilize a camera to match the face of the person viewing the screen with a stored image of the person that is authorized to e sign and if the match is made permitting the process of e signing to proceed. In another instance a biometric match may be required to permit the process of e signing to proceed such as through the use of a match to an iris as viewed through a camera an e fingerprint through a fingerprint pad for input to the computing device or any other biometric verification method known to the art. In embodiments conditions for enabling an e signature process to proceed may be stored in a user profile where if the conditions e.g. number of people viewing authorization matching though images and or biometrics are not met the document may be obfuscated.

In embodiments a method for managing a networked secure collaborative computer data exchange environment may be provided the method including establishing by a secure exchange server controlled by an intermediate business entity a client login data authentication procedure that allows at least one client computing device of a plurality of client computing devices operated by users of a plurality of business entities to access the secure exchange server wherein communications between the secure exchange server and the plurality of client computing devices is through a communications network storing by the secure exchange server at least one client login authentication data for each of the plurality of client computing devices receiving content from a first of the plurality of client computing devices by the secure exchange server permitting access to the content for a subset of the plurality of computing devices through an exchange content access facility wherein the exchange content access facility is managed by at least one business entity of the plurality of business entities granting by the exchange server access to the content to a second of the plurality of client computing devices when the secure exchange server receives from the second of the plurality of client computing devices its client login authentication data provided that the second of the plurality of client computing devices is one of the subset of the plurality of computing devices and providing an electronic signature facility for managing a process of signing the received content by at least one of the subset of the plurality of computing devices wherein the electronic signature facility includes a signature viewer interface that restricts viewing of the content for signing.

In embodiments access to the exchange server by client processors may be through a host server controlled by the business entity that controls the client processor. The client computing devices may be at least one of owned and managed by at least one of the plurality of business entities. The client computing devices may be owned by individual users. The secure exchange server may be at least one of a plurality of exchange servers. The content may be at least one of a document a spreadsheet a message data an image audio content video content multimedia content and the like. The content may be transferred to the secure exchange server via encrypted data transmission.

In embodiments the electronic signature facility may include an electronic signature graphical user interface for presenting the content for signing. The restricted viewing may be a signing user being restricted to only those portions of the content that the signing user is authorized to view. The restricted viewing may be a signing user being restricted to only those portions of the content for which the signing applies.

In embodiments a method for managing a networked secure collaborative computer data exchange environment may be provided establishing by a secure exchange server controlled by an intermediate business entity an authentication procedure for a client login authentication data that allows at least one of a plurality of user client computing devices operated by users of at least two business entities to access the at least one secure exchange server wherein communications between the secure exchange server and the plurality of user client computing devices is through a communications network storing by the secure exchange server the at least one client login authentication data for each of the plurality of client computing devices receiving from a first of the plurality of user client computing devices content associating access by the secure exchange server to the content to a subset of the plurality of user computing devices through an exchange content access facility the exchange content access facility managed by at least one of the plurality of business entities granting by the exchange server access to the content of the secure exchange server to a second of the plurality of user client computing devices when the secure exchange server receives a client login authentication data from the second of the plurality of user client computing devices and dependent upon the second of the plurality of user client computing devices being one of the subset of the plurality of user client computing devices and providing an electronic signature facility for managing a process of signing the received content by at least one of the subset of the plurality of computing devices wherein the electronic signature facility verifies the identity of the signing user through biometric profiling utilizing previously stored biometric data from the signing user.

In embodiments a method for managing a networked secure collaborative computer data exchange environment may be provided establishing by a secure exchange server controlled by an intermediate business entity an authentication procedure for a client login authentication data that allows at least one of a plurality of user client computing devices operated by users of at least two business entities to access the at least one secure exchange server wherein communications between the secure exchange server and the plurality of user client computing devices is through a communications network storing by the secure exchange server the at least one client login authentication data for each of the plurality of client computing devices receiving from a first of the plurality of user client computing devices content associating access by the secure exchange server to the content to a subset of the plurality of user computing devices through an exchange content access facility the exchange content access facility managed by at least one of the plurality of business entities granting by the exchange server access to the content of the secure exchange server to a second of the plurality of user client computing devices when the secure exchange server receives a client login authentication data from the second of the plurality of user client computing devices and dependent upon the second of the plurality of user client computing devices being one of the subset of the plurality of user client computing devices and providing an electronic signature facility for managing a process of signing the received content by at least one of the subset of the plurality of computing devices the electronic signature facility assembling an electronically signed document including signatures from a plurality of users each of which has had access to only a subset of the content for which they were the signatory.

In embodiments a method for managing a networked secure collaborative computer data exchange environment may be provided establishing by a secure exchange server controlled by an intermediate business entity an authentication procedure for a client login authentication data that allows at least one of a plurality of user client computing devices operated by users of at least two business entities to access the at least one secure exchange server wherein communications between the secure exchange server and the plurality of user client computing devices is through a communications network storing by the secure exchange server the at least one client login authentication data for each of the plurality of client computing devices receiving from a first of the plurality of user client computing devices content associating access by the secure exchange server to the content to a subset of the plurality of user computing devices through an exchange content access facility the exchange content access facility managed by at least one of the plurality of business entities granting by the exchange server access to the content of the secure exchange server to a second of the plurality of user client computing devices when the secure exchange server receives a client login authentication data from the second of the plurality of user client computing devices and dependent upon the second of the plurality of user client computing devices being one of the subset of the plurality of user client computing devices and providing an electronic signature facility for managing a process of signing the received content by at least one of the subset of the plurality of computing devices wherein the electronic signature facility provides for secure viewing of the content as presented to a signing user through a computer display of the signing user s client computing device wherein the user s client computing device includes an integrated camera for viewing the environment around the signing user and a face detection facility for recognizing the signing user detecting if the signing user is the only individual present in the viewed environment and if not obfuscates the viewing of the content. The obfuscation may be blanking the screen distorting the viewing of the content and the like. The detection of the signing user by the face detection facility may be accomplished by comparing an image of a previously stored facial image of the signing user to the face detected in the viewed environment.

Referring to the dashboard facility may provide organized facilities for managing exchanges amongst the plurality of exchange service users disseminate to users of multiple groups of users separating exchange environments and the like. For example for a corporate M A or private equity group the dashboard may provide users with the ability to take their information create a profile and expose the information to other parties e.g. to private equity investors showing performance of their individual funds . The dashboard may present information in an organized manner allow for loading of information through an information importer provide permissions to view information allow for the exporting of information through an information exporter and the like. The dashboard facility may provide for user access and display of both structured and unstructured data access to views that provide a custom format or familiar terms to a particular category of transaction client e.g. fund investment documents capital account statement investment team and the like which also may restrict a user s view to content applicable to them or to the targeted category of transaction. In a private equity example the user may configure the dashboard to their specific needs such as including useful widgets to display information relating to the market e.g. available funds . A funds widget may provide for selection of a fund providing overview and performance information and the like. There may also be sub widgets that provide further functionality to a widget. The user may also have multiple dashboards such as for different exchanges different markets different deals and the like. One dashboard may handle information that is available to other users and another dashboard may handle all personal files that are both available and unavailable to other users. The dashboard facility may also provide a compliance feature such as to track changes made in each dashboard.

In an example of setting up a file exchange an administrator user may place files within an input file directory where the files may have a nomenclature that tells what widget they will populate. The system may create a configuration run a process to populate it ensure it is correct before allowing access and the like. In this way data may be considered stage data prior to allowing access and production data once approved. Once the user is comfortable with a view they can proceed and publish the staged data into production . The system may be able to upload data as CSV file create permissions files and the like. In embodiments a specific user might be provided a view within a dashboard but be given only access to one or more records within the dashboard. For example the user might only see a particular fund rather than all funds. If they select that fund they may be able to see child data associated with that fund. But without permission the other funds or child data would not be displayed. A permissions model may give users access to specific records within the dashboard. In an M A example a user may be able to see all the live deals an organization is managing a certain human resources team might be allowed to see the dashboard and the like where specific entities are provided permissions.

The dashboard may have both optional and standard functionality such as standard filtering options converting documents to a PDF format and the like. There may be a widget catalog provided such as for textual displays graphs and charts document tracking and the like.

The dashboard may enable management of files at a document level at a record level and the like such as to allow a user to add records and manage information. A user may be able to add new content put in the required information refresh the screen e.g. on a per deal basis and the like. The user may be able to edit and delete existing records show a parent child relationship and the like. The user might want to choose the parent and find the document within the exchange and link it up to the parent document. The system may have the ability to manage individual records such as for dashboard data but also to permissions. The user may be able to take a parent record and provide permission to one of the many users to enable access to those parents. In embodiments the system may provide for an auditing facility such as for tracking who is adding records and permissions.

Referring to an example layout for listing available funds and fund information is shown providing a plurality of columns for content. illustrate editing the example fund such as editing specific column content. shows an alert for a condition under which the user cannot save edits such because the user no longer has the latest version of the data e.g. with new data was uploaded or another user edited the content since the time the dashboard was opened . In this instance a control button may be provided to update the dashboard data. shows an example dialog box for creating a new fund in the example layout. shows dialog boxes for attaching a document. show a user interface for providing permissions in association with the example fund including providing an ID of the user wanting to change permissions.

Referring to the Email in facility may provide for the ability to add content to an exchange using regular email such as sent to a designated email address. This facility may be especially important with respect to users that circulate critical information and documents via email and where there is a tendency to lose track of it at some point. Users may use the system s email in facility to store email in a secure repository and to be able to tell people to send email to this repository as part of a regular business process. The exchange manager may then review and process the information further. This may simplify the learning curve of using any web application. If the manager is very knowledgeable he may not need all of the counter parties to spend time learning the application. They simply send the content into an exchange. Other features may include an email address being associated with a folder in an exchange a maximum number of allowed emails in an exchange e.g. a user may define a cap an email conversion facility a white list and black list of users notifications of success and or error and the like. In embodiments email in may be limited to authorized users only such as already in the exchange listed on a white list and the like.

Use cases for email in may include submission of analysis documents for review a method for having a third party review applications e.g. in order to create accounts while ensuring the third party does not gain control over attachments that contain private information and the like. In addition the system may provide for folder permissions in the email folder that can be used to prevent misuse. For compliance the user may be able to store communications in an archive and track what was done in association with the communications.

In embodiments any exchange may be set up with email in as a feature. An administrator or client may go through the process such as defining where the sender s email address is stored in the system using custom fields for the from field storing the message as an email cap the maximum emails it can accept choosing the folder it will be associated with and the like. A folder location may thus be mapped to an email address e.g. with the domain pre defined but the pre fix available for end user definition . The user may select users to be included for the feature set alert settings and notification settings e.g. problem alerts that something was added and the like. A white list may be included such as for who should be able to send emails into the exchange e.g. could be domains or even addresses . If a user is not on the white list they may not be able to send emails to the exchange. A black list may be included where a user may choose users to refuse acceptance onto the exchange.

The email in facility may create a folder structure within a pre defined mapped folder and create a sub folder for each email that is sent into the exchange such as with the subject as the title of that folder. Contents of the folders may then include any attached documents. The email in content may be organized like any exchange where new emails are added as they come in. The system may be configured to send to a group or to only one. For instance a user may send the folder to one person to review but not give the recipient the right to do resend print or save the document. Permission may be applied to the documents like any other document as described herein such as who can review the correspondence who can modify it save it print it and the like. In embodiments an event trigger facility may be provided where received email may trigger an event such as a task a process and the like. For instance if a contract comes in it may trigger a renewal process. In another instance an amendment process may be triggered with the reception of an email.

In embodiments the email in facility may include the collection of emails from various parties into a structured database for later management and processing by a critical information exchange manager eliminate the learning curve of using a web application to upload document to the cloud allow specific internal external parties to post documents into a web folder that may be shared with predefined individuals at various control levels and the like. Components may include an email address associated with a folder in an exchange a maximum number of allowed emails in an exchange a definition of email conversion options a white list a black list notifications on success and or error and the like. In an example client or prospect requests may be processed such as for an investment firm with a need to submit documents for analysis a bank looking for a way to have a third part review applications to create new accounts while ensuring that the third party does not gain control over the attachments that contain private information a bank having compliance needs such as needing to archive all communications they have e.g. cc ing and replying to the system on all correspondences and the like. shows an introduction to email in to the user and a control button to begin the process. In embodiments there may be a number of steps options in the execution of email in such as choosing basic options mapping folders selecting alert recipients creation of a white list creation of a black list enabling disabling of the system and the like. shows an example dialog box for selection of basic options including a custom field selection for the from of an email how incoming email body content be stored definitions for the maximum number of emails that should be accepted into the exchange and the like. shows a dialog boxes for selection of a folder in association with mapping folders with showing an alert for when a duplicate email address is used. illustrates the selection of users and their alert settings. shows an embodiment warning for a duplicate domain or email address associated with the creation of a blacklist. shows a possible checklist in association with the enabling of the system such as shown in the figure for selection of a custom field mapping to two folders folders for mapping email into no maximum specified for number of emails two domains listed on a white list and one domain listed on a black list. shows a user interface presented to the user once email in is enabled showing tabs for listing options mapped folders alert recipients white lists black lists and the like and showing specifically the email in options. show examples of the content and dialog boxes provided in association with the mapped folders tab.

In embodiments a method for managing a networked secure collaborative computer data exchange environment may be provided the method including establishing by a secure exchange server controlled by an intermediate business entity a client login data authentication procedure that allows at least one client computing device of a plurality of client computing devices operated by users of a plurality of business entities to access the secure exchange server wherein communications between the secure exchange server and the plurality of client computing devices is through a communications network storing by the secure exchange server at least one client login authentication data for each of the plurality of client computing devices receiving content from a first of the plurality of client computing devices by the secure exchange server permitting access to the content for a subset of the plurality of computing devices through an exchange content access facility wherein the exchange content access facility is managed by at least one business entity of the plurality of business entities granting by the exchange server access to the content to a second of the plurality of client computing devices when the secure exchange server receives from the second of the plurality of client computing devices its client login authentication data provided that the second of the plurality of client computing devices is one of the subset of the plurality of computing devices and providing a secure email input facility for accepting non secure email from outside the exchange into the secure collaborative computer data exchange environment wherein the non secure email is received and stored as secure email in the secure exchange server.

In embodiments access to the exchange server by client processors may be through a host server controlled by the business entity that controls the client processor. The client computing devices may be at least one of owned and managed by at least one of the plurality of business entities. The client computing devices may be owned by individual users. The secure exchange server may be at least one of a plurality of exchange servers. The content may be at least one of a document a spreadsheet a message data an image audio content video content multimedia content and the like. The content may be transferred to the secure exchange server via encrypted data transmission.

In embodiments the acceptance of the non secure email may be dependent upon a controlled listing stored in the secure exchange server where the listing is a white listing specifying emails that are allowed a black listing specifying email that are not allowed and the like. The reception of a non secure email may trigger an event where the triggered event is the initiation of a content amendment process the initiation of a new exchange the distribution of the email within the exchange storage of the email in a secure archive facility and the like. The email may be automatically associated with an area of content on the exchange based on the sender of the email the subject line of the email the destination address of the email within the exchange and the content of the email and the like.

Referring to the viewer facility may provide for a secure viewing protection of documents from unauthorized viewing printing saving and the like such as without having to install custom client software e.g. without installing anything beyond Adobe Flash . Documents in certain formats such as Microsoft Office products PDF documents and the like may be supported for protection. For example for a PDF document a security warning may appear that a user is only allowed to view the document. However if the user tries to print the screen the screen may distort such as transitioning to a fuzzy state. In embodiments the user may need to hold the enter key down to make the document viewable. The user may be able to page up and down rotate zoom and the like. The system may provide for watermarking the document so that if a user is permitted to print screen the document will print with the watermarking. The viewer facility may also include functions such as viewing annotations in the viewer connectivity with the e signing facility e.g. with a stamping tool document visibility based on face detection document protection from eavesdroppers e.g. automatic limitation of document viewing also referred herein as spotlighting based on detection of a second face granular page level document access reports document protection using facial recognition based encryption text to voice feature e.g. such as in Apple Siri hand gesture based controls e.g. scrolling control based on hand fist movement real time white boarding secure video chat e.g. one on one group and the like. In embodiments the viewer facility may include an audio comment component such as to allow a user to input comments into the document through audio dictation to have the viewer facility play back the comments in audio to provide audio output for various aspects of the document and the like.

In embodiments the viewer may be able to detect faces and enhance security based on face detection such as through utilization of a camera connected to or integrated with the computing device being used to view content. The viewer may also utilize a secure view such as where only a portion of a document is made viewable by the person viewing the document. Secure view may implement security measures e.g. blanking the screen distorting the screen putting up a screen based on eye motion movement of the face the presence of a second face and the like. Viewing time may be monitored and reported audited and the like based on how long the user s face has looked at the document where the monitoring reporting auditing and the like may be provided automatically. Document encryption and decryption may be provided based on document permissions. For instance if the document can only be opened by a specific number of people face detection may use the author or any other permissioned user s face to encrypt the document and require the same face to be detected to allow un locking of the document. Encryption of the face may then be recorded and used as an electronic signature thereby tying the face to the user s profile. Recording of viewing time may be on a document level on a per page basis and the like. Viewing statistics may be mined for business intelligence by sellers in a strategic transaction such as through a CIO with an enterprise a marketing analyst or any such user who may benefit from knowing with content is being read and what content is not being read.

In embodiments the viewer may provide a search facility to search within a document. The system may allow for highlighting a search result highlighting a selected portion of the document and the like. The system may provide facilities for annotating marking commenting and the like to a document such as a private annotation for the user a shared annotation for other users and the like. The system may provide for a secure document view where only some portions of the document are viewable. For instance a user may only want to show another user a selected portion of a document. The secure document view may also allow a user to increase the size of the document view window which may better ensure that people proximate to you only see the relevant portions of the document. Another feature of the secure document view may include distorting those portions of the document that are not selected for viewing such as making those sections fuzzy. The secure document view may react to the eye movement of the user such as scrolling the document as the user s eye gaze direction shifts distorting or blocking the document from view if the user looks away from the viewer and the like.

The viewing facility may have capabilities for dealing with certain document formats in a standard way. For instance the system may automatically convert Microsoft Word and PowerPoint documents to a PDF format open spreadsheets e.g. Microsoft Excel in a spreadsheet viewer and the like. For instance when an Excel document is opened it may be rendered on the fly decrypted on the fly as a user scrolls down retrieved from the server and encrypted on the fly and the like.

In embodiments a method for managing a networked secure collaborative computer data exchange environment may be provided the method including establishing by a secure exchange server controlled by an intermediate business entity a client login data authentication procedure that allows at least one client computing device of a plurality of client computing devices operated by users of a plurality of business entities to access the secure exchange server wherein communications between the secure exchange server and the plurality of client computing devices is through a communications network storing by the secure exchange server at least one client login authentication data for each of the plurality of client computing devices receiving content from a first of the plurality of client computing devices by the secure exchange server permitting access to the content for a subset of the plurality of computing devices through an exchange content access facility wherein the exchange content access facility is managed by at least one business entity of the plurality of business entities granting by the exchange server access to the content to a second of the plurality of client computing devices when the secure exchange server receives from the second of the plurality of client computing devices its client login authentication data provided that the second of the plurality of client computing devices is one of the subset of the plurality of computing devices and providing a secure content viewer facility for the user to securely view the content on the user s client computing device wherein the secure view is provided through a viewing restriction based on a user action.

In embodiments access to the exchange server by client processors may be through a host server controlled by the business entity that controls the client processor. The client computing devices may be at least one of owned and managed by at least one of the plurality of business entities. The client computing devices may be owned by individual users. The secure exchange server may be at least one of a plurality of exchange servers. The content may be at least one of a document a spreadsheet a message data an image audio content video content multimedia content and the like. The content may be transferred to the secure exchange server via encrypted data transmission.

In embodiments the viewing restriction may be obfuscating the content view when the user action is an attempt to print screen a security warning when the user action is an attempt to view the document a water mark being inserted on the content when the action is a user printing the content and the like. The client computing device may be a mobile client computing device such as personally owned by the user and configured for secure content viewing through the business entity.

In embodiments a method for managing a networked secure collaborative computer data exchange environment may be provided establishing by a secure exchange server controlled by an intermediate business entity an authentication procedure for a client login authentication data that allows at least one of a plurality of user client computing devices operated by users of at least two business entities to access the at least one secure exchange server wherein communications between the secure exchange server and the plurality of user client computing devices is through a communications network storing by the secure exchange server the at least one client login authentication data for each of the plurality of client computing devices receiving from a first of the plurality of user client computing devices content associating access by the secure exchange server to the content to a subset of the plurality of user computing devices through an exchange content access facility the exchange content access facility managed by at least one of the plurality of business entities granting by the exchange server access to the content of the secure exchange server to a second of the plurality of user client computing devices when the secure exchange server receives a client login authentication data from the second of the plurality of user client computing devices and dependent upon the second of the plurality of user client computing devices being one of the subset of the plurality of user client computing devices and providing a secure content viewer facility for the user to securely view the content on the user s client computing device wherein a secure view is provided through a viewing restriction based on a user action the user action detected through an integrated camera operating in conjunction with face recognition facility on the client computing device and the viewing restriction being an obfuscation of the content view when the user is observed such that viewing of the content by others is at risk. The user may be observed with other people in view of the camera with an eye gaze that is away from the client computing device and the like.

In embodiments a method for managing a networked secure collaborative computer data exchange environment may be provided establishing by a secure exchange server controlled by an intermediate business entity an authentication procedure for a client login authentication data that allows at least one of a plurality of user client computing devices operated by users of at least two business entities to access the at least one secure exchange server wherein communications between the secure exchange server and the plurality of user client computing devices is through a communications network storing by the secure exchange server the at least one client login authentication data for each of the plurality of client computing devices receiving from a first of the plurality of user client computing devices content associating access by the secure exchange server to the content to a subset of the plurality of user computing devices through an exchange content access facility the exchange content access facility managed by at least one of the plurality of business entities granting by the exchange server access to the content of the secure exchange server to a second of the plurality of user client computing devices when the secure exchange server receives a client login authentication data from the second of the plurality of user client computing devices and dependent upon the second of the plurality of user client computing devices being one of the subset of the plurality of user client computing devices and providing a content viewer monitoring facility for monitoring the user viewing the content on their client computing device wherein the monitoring is provided through an integrated camera operating in conjunction with a face recognition facility on the client computing device.

In embodiments a method for managing a networked secure collaborative computer data exchange environment may be provided establishing by a secure exchange server controlled by an intermediate business entity an authentication procedure for a client login authentication data that allows at least one of a plurality of user client computing devices operated by users of at least two business entities to access the at least one secure exchange server wherein communications between the secure exchange server and the plurality of user client computing devices is through a communications network storing by the secure exchange server the at least one client login authentication data for each of the plurality of client computing devices receiving from a first of the plurality of user client computing devices content associating access by the secure exchange server to the content to a subset of the plurality of user computing devices through an exchange content access facility the exchange content access facility managed by at least one of the plurality of business entities granting by the exchange server access to the content of the secure exchange server to a second of the plurality of user client computing devices when the secure exchange server receives a client login authentication data from the second of the plurality of user client computing devices and dependent upon the second of the plurality of user client computing devices being one of the subset of the plurality of user client computing devices and providing a content viewer monitoring facility for monitoring the user viewing the content on their client computing device wherein a content viewing access report is generated that provides statistics related to the time the user spends viewing portions of the content. The portion of the content may be at a granular level of a page of the content at a granular level of the entire document and the like. The content viewing access report may provide for tracking and audit reporting for the user viewing the content. The statistics may be used to develop business intelligence.

In embodiments a method for managing a networked secure collaborative computer data exchange environment may be provided establishing by a secure exchange server controlled by an intermediate business entity an authentication procedure for a client login authentication data that allows at least one of a plurality of user client computing devices operated by users of at least two business entities to access the at least one secure exchange server wherein communications between the secure exchange server and the plurality of user client computing devices is through a communications network storing by the secure exchange server the at least one client login authentication data for each of the plurality of client computing devices receiving from a first of the plurality of user client computing devices content associating access by the secure exchange server to the content to a subset of the plurality of user computing devices through an exchange content access facility the exchange content access facility managed by at least one of the plurality of business entities granting by the exchange server access to the content of the secure exchange server to a second of the plurality of user client computing devices when the secure exchange server receives a client login authentication data from the second of the plurality of user client computing devices and dependent upon the second of the plurality of user client computing devices being one of the subset of the plurality of user client computing devices and providing a content viewer control facility for user controlled viewing of the content on their client computing device wherein the control is at least in part enabled through an integrated camera operating in conjunction with a motion recognition facility on the client computing device. The control may be actualized through monitoring user hand gestures monitoring user eye movements through monitoring user head movements and the like. The control may be enabling the viewing of the content tuning a page in viewing the content inserting a signature into the content closing a viewing session for the content and the like.

Referring to the mobile device interface facility may provide for facilities such that a mobile device can be used while maintaining the secure exchange environment provided by the host server as described herein such as for a tablet e.g. an iPad a smart phone and the like where for instance the mobile device is provided functionality provided through the e signing facility the viewer facility and the like. Facilities normally provided through the host server as shown in may be provided in part or whole on the mobile device such that the mobile device may be utilized when the mobile device does not have connectivity with the host server . For instance the user may be able to login to the same interface as when they are working through a non mobile computer such as on their personal computer and see their list of exchanges all of their documents all of their contacts and the like. Using an iPad as an example all of the user s documents may be encrypted when sent to the iPad and decrypted for viewing such that none of the information is decrypted and stored on the iPad. A user may not be able to print or save from the mobile device and be provided with a secure document viewer as described herein such as partial viewing eye gaze motion control watermarking and the like.

In embodiments the present invention may provide for technology aspects related to architecture structural components facilities data communications analytics reporting materials inbound components processes algorithms and the like. Architecture structural components and facility may include multi language support metadata association document content processing document content distribution distributed geo storage and the like. Relationships among components may include CRM integration sales force connector HCM integration ERP integration ECM integration e Learning integration and the like. Data communications analytics and reporting may include user history reporting activity reporting permission reporting access reporting audit and compliance reporting configurable dashboards self service reporting e.g. custom scheduled ad hoc IMAP folder management exadata integration and the like.

In embodiments the present invention may provide for product aspects related to features attributes benefits outputs functional benefits security and the like. Products may include integration from a secure data room public private bifurcation in the loan market secure mobile devices and the like. Features attributes and benefits may include iPad protected documents bounce back reporting branding channels alerts task management multi task process management automatic indexing migration automation e.g. ILIA automation specialization e.g. custom fields custom workflow very large file support document management e.g. review and approve check in and out version control customizable user interface unified inbox and the like. Product features may include custom alerts buyer utilities bulk addition of files and folders dynamically indexing information advanced and federated search and filtering custom fields and tags integration with third party document formats e.g. Microsoft Office products add and management of users and groups multi file uploads commenting compliant archiving native format file viewing business intelligence based on activity reporting question and answer components link mapping secure viewing without plug ins unified communication and collaboration e.g. presence notification IM chat discussion threads forums and wikis administration capability e forms and the like. Security may include on demand rights management access and authentication e.g. document and content level access multi factor authentication single sign on data encryption tracking and audit intra structure security e.g. systems protection security audits personnel security process security encryption watermarking and the like.

In embodiments the present invention may provide for market aspects related uses applications environments of deployment use scenarios ecosystems value chains system integration and the like. Applications may include corporate repository extended team collaboration managed file transfer secure extranet project lifecycle management board reporting legal extranet legal repository legal collaboration managed file transfer regulatory audit and reporting secure extranet financial audit management fundraising investor communication contract management regulatory filings board of directors communication Compliance feed integration access gatekeeper project capital finance project collaboration supply chain management contract manufacturing and the like. Markets may include finance loan syndication M A e.g. relationship management and marketing activities client interactions sending legal documents and contacts for comment edit and signature alternative investments commercial banking investment banking bankruptcy and restructuring corporate development construction life sciences pharmaceutical biotechnology energy and utilities utility rate case management insurance telecommunications project life cycle management information technology legal services government manufacturing real estate media and entertainment and the like. Environments of deployment may include corporate development corporate repository corporate finance corporate legal engineering human resources marketing general services research and development compliance and security line of business and the like. Use scenarios may include bankruptcy restructuring board reporting business development and licensing clinical site activation extended team collaboration fundraising initial public offerings IPOs investor portals investor reporting legal extranet managed file transfer mergers and acquisitions private placements project lifecycle management regulatory audit and reporting regulatory case management safety document distribution secure extranet structured finances syndicated lending virtual data room and the like.

While the invention has been described in connection with certain preferred embodiments other embodiments would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art and are encompassed herein.

The methods and systems described herein may be deployed in part or in whole through a machine that executes computer software program codes and or instructions on a processor. The present invention may be implemented as a method on the machine as a system or apparatus as part of or in relation to the machine or as a computer program product embodied in a computer readable medium executing on one or more of the machines. The processor may be part of a server client network infrastructure mobile computing platform stationary computing platform or other computing platform. A processor may be any kind of computational or processing device capable of executing program instructions codes binary instructions and the like. The processor may be or include a signal processor digital processor embedded processor microprocessor or any variant such as a co processor math co processor graphic co processor communication co processor and the like and the like that may directly or indirectly facilitate execution of program code or program instructions stored thereon. In addition the processor may enable execution of multiple programs threads and codes. The threads may be executed simultaneously to enhance the performance of the processor and to facilitate simultaneous operations of the application. By way of implementation methods program codes program instructions and the like described herein may be implemented in one or more thread. The thread may spawn other threads that may have assigned priorities associated with them the processor may execute these threads based on priority or any other order based on instructions provided in the program code. The processor may include memory that stores methods codes instructions and programs as described herein and elsewhere. The processor may access a storage medium through an interface that may store methods codes and instructions as described herein and elsewhere. The storage medium associated with the processor for storing methods programs codes program instructions or other type of instructions capable of being executed by the computing or processing device may include but may not be limited to one or more of a CD ROM DVD memory hard disk flash drive RAM ROM cache and the like.

A processor may include one or more cores that may enhance speed and performance of a multiprocessor. In embodiments the process may be a dual core processor quad core processors other chip level multiprocessor and the like that combine two or more independent cores called a die .

The methods and systems described herein may be deployed in part or in whole through a machine that executes computer software on a server client firewall gateway hub router or other such computer and or networking hardware. The software program may be associated with a server that may include a file server print server domain server internet server intranet server and other variants such as secondary server host server distributed server and the like. The server may include one or more of memories processors computer readable media storage media ports physical and virtual communication devices and interfaces capable of accessing other servers clients machines and devices through a wired or a wireless medium and the like. The methods programs or codes as described herein and elsewhere may be executed by the server. In addition other devices required for execution of methods as described in this application may be considered as a part of the infrastructure associated with the server.

The server may provide an interface to other devices including without limitation clients other servers printers database servers print servers file servers communication servers distributed servers and the like. Additionally this coupling and or connection may facilitate remote execution of program across the network. The networking of some or all of these devices may facilitate parallel processing of a program or method at one or more location without deviating from the scope of the invention. In addition any of the devices attached to the server through an interface may include at least one storage medium capable of storing methods programs code and or instructions. A central repository may provide program instructions to be executed on different devices. In this implementation the remote repository may act as a storage medium for program code instructions and programs.

The software program may be associated with a client that may include a file client print client domain client internet client intranet client and other variants such as secondary client host client distributed client and the like. The client may include one or more of memories processors computer readable media storage media ports physical and virtual communication devices and interfaces capable of accessing other clients servers machines and devices through a wired or a wireless medium and the like. The methods programs or codes as described herein and elsewhere may be executed by the client. In addition other devices required for execution of methods as described in this application may be considered as a part of the infrastructure associated with the client.

The client may provide an interface to other devices including without limitation servers other clients printers database servers print servers file servers communication servers distributed servers and the like. Additionally this coupling and or connection may facilitate remote execution of program across the network. The networking of some or all of these devices may facilitate parallel processing of a program or method at one or more location without deviating from the scope of the invention. In addition any of the devices attached to the client through an interface may include at least one storage medium capable of storing methods programs applications code and or instructions. A central repository may provide program instructions to be executed on different devices. In this implementation the remote repository may act as a storage medium for program code instructions and programs.

The methods and systems described herein may be deployed in part or in whole through network infrastructures. The network infrastructure may include elements such as computing devices servers routers hubs firewalls clients personal computers communication devices routing devices and other active and passive devices facilitys and or components as known in the art. The computing and or non computing device s associated with the network infrastructure may include apart from other components a storage medium such as flash memory buffer stack RAM ROM and the like. The processes methods program codes instructions described herein and elsewhere may be executed by one or more of the network infrastructural elements.

The methods program codes and instructions described herein and elsewhere may be implemented on a cellular network having multiple cells. The cellular network may either be frequency division multiple access FDMA network or code division multiple access CDMA network. The cellular network may include mobile devices cell sites base stations repeaters antennas towers and the like. The cell network may be a GSM GPRS 3G EVDO mesh or other networks types.

The methods programs codes and instructions described herein and elsewhere may be implemented on or through mobile devices. The mobile devices may include navigation devices cell phones mobile phones mobile personal digital assistants laptops palmtops netbooks pagers electronic books readers music players and the like. These devices may include apart from other components a storage medium such as a flash memory buffer RAM ROM and one or more computing devices. The computing devices associated with mobile devices may be enabled to execute program codes methods and instructions stored thereon. Alternatively the mobile devices may be configured to execute instructions in collaboration with other devices. The mobile devices may communicate with base stations interfaced with servers and configured to execute program codes. The mobile devices may communicate on a peer to peer network mesh network or other communications network. The program code may be stored on the storage medium associated with the server and executed by a computing device embedded within the server. The base station may include a computing device and a storage medium. The storage device may store program codes and instructions executed by the computing devices associated with the base station.

The computer software program codes and or instructions may be stored and or accessed on machine readable media that may include computer components devices and recording media that retain digital data used for computing for some interval of time semiconductor storage known as random access memory RAM mass storage typically for more permanent storage such as optical discs forms of magnetic storage like hard disks tapes drums cards and other types processor registers cache memory volatile memory non volatile memory optical storage such as CD DVD removable media such as flash memory e.g. USB sticks or keys floppy disks magnetic tape paper tape punch cards standalone RAM disks Zip drives removable mass storage off line and the like other computer memory such as dynamic memory static memory read write storage mutable storage read only random access sequential access location addressable file addressable content addressable network attached storage storage area network bar codes magnetic ink and the like.

The methods and systems described herein may transform physical and or or intangible items from one state to another. The methods and systems described herein may also transform data representing physical and or intangible items from one state to another.

The elements described and depicted herein including in flow charts and block diagrams throughout the figures imply logical boundaries between the elements. However according to software or hardware engineering practices the depicted elements and the functions thereof may be implemented on machines through computer executable media having a processor capable of executing program instructions stored thereon as a monolithic software structure as standalone software facilities or as facilities that employ external routines code services and so forth or any combination of these and all such implementations may be within the scope of the present disclosure. Examples of such machines may include but may not be limited to personal digital assistants laptops personal computers mobile phones other handheld computing devices medical equipment wired or wireless communication devices transducers chips calculators satellites tablet PCs electronic books gadgets electronic devices devices having artificial intelligence computing devices networking equipments servers routers and the like. Furthermore the elements depicted in the flow chart and block diagrams or any other logical component may be implemented on a machine capable of executing program instructions. Thus while the foregoing drawings and descriptions set forth functional aspects of the disclosed systems no particular arrangement of software for implementing these functional aspects should be inferred from these descriptions unless explicitly stated or otherwise clear from the context. Similarly it will be appreciated that the various steps identified and described above may be varied and that the order of steps may be adapted to particular applications of the techniques disclosed herein. All such variations and modifications are intended to fall within the scope of this disclosure. As such the depiction and or description of an order for various steps should not be understood to require a particular order of execution for those steps unless required by a particular application or explicitly stated or otherwise clear from the context.

The methods and or processes described above and steps thereof may be realized in hardware software or any combination of hardware and software suitable for a particular application. The hardware may include a general purpose computer and or dedicated computing device or specific computing device or particular aspect or component of a specific computing device. The processes may be realized in one or more microprocessors microcontrollers embedded microcontrollers programmable digital signal processors or other programmable device along with internal and or external memory. The processes may also or instead be embodied in an application specific integrated circuit a programmable gate array programmable array logic or any other device or combination of devices that may be configured to process electronic signals. It will further be appreciated that one or more of the processes may be realized as a computer executable code capable of being executed on a machine readable medium.

The computer executable code may be created using a structured programming language such as C an object oriented programming language such as C or any other high level or low level programming language including assembly languages hardware description languages and database programming languages and technologies that may be stored compiled or interpreted to run on one of the above devices as well as heterogeneous combinations of processors processor architectures or combinations of different hardware and software or any other machine capable of executing program instructions.

Thus in one aspect each method described above and combinations thereof may be embodied in computer executable code that when executing on one or more computing devices performs the steps thereof. In another aspect the methods may be embodied in systems that perform the steps thereof and may be distributed across devices in a number of ways or all of the functionality may be integrated into a dedicated standalone device or other hardware. In another aspect the means for performing the steps associated with the processes described above may include any of the hardware and or software described above. All such permutations and combinations are intended to fall within the scope of the present disclosure.

While the invention has been disclosed in connection with the preferred embodiments shown and described in detail various modifications and improvements thereon will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly the spirit and scope of the present invention is not to be limited by the foregoing examples but is to be understood in the broadest sense allowable by law.

