---

title: Non-contact electrical machine air gap measurement tool
abstract: A measuring kit for contactless measuring of the air gap distance between a frame mounted pole and core of a rotor includes a capacitance sensor which generates a signal proportional to the measured air gap, a panel meter in communication with the capacitance sensor which interprets the signal and displays the minimum air gap distance, an A/D converter also in communication with the capacitance sensor which converts the signal to a digitized signal, and a control panel which takes the digitized signal from the A/D converter, processes the digitized signal, and then displays the minimum air gap measurement. The control panel shows a graphic of the core and its surrounding poles to track the progress of the testing, and when the testing between the core and one of the surrounding poles is complete, the graphic of the pole tested visually darkens to indicate that portion of the test is complete.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09599452&OS=09599452&RS=09599452
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09599452
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160122
---
The invention described herein was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The disclosure relates generally to a non contact method and tool for measuring the air gap distance between frame mounted poles and the core of a rotating armature in electrical machinery.

Air gaps in electrical machinery are required to be maintained within certain dimensional tolerances for proper operation. The tolerances are checked each time a rotor is changed or when troubleshooting or testing. If the measured air gap is not within the required dimensional tolerance then the air gap is adjusted to be within that range. Adjustment of the air gap to within the required dimensional tolerance helps improve commutation regulation physical clearance among other machine parameters.

Contact methods such as a wedged feeler gauge type method have traditionally been used to measure air gaps. According to this method a tapered bar or wedge shown in as is coated with graphite and then slid between the core and the pole until resistance is felt. The wedge is then removed and the point where the core and the pole scrape the graphite is measured. There are several problems with this method. The wedged feeler gauge type method is time consuming cumbersome and inconsistent. The method is prone to human error due to the varying amounts of force a person can use to push the wedge in. Obviously pushing the wedge in more or less yields a different air gap measurement. The measurement difference is significant especially since the air gap distance is small and the measurements are taken in micrometers. Additional variances in the measurement can result from the position on the rotor from which measurements are taken. The position on the rotor from which measurements are taken must be located under the exact center of the pole for an accurate minimum reading. Centering can be difficult in areas with limited visibility and the pole s center must be aligned with a mirror. The method is also problematic because this method often requires the removal of internal bus work to get enough physical access to take the measurements. Unnecessary disassembly adds additional time and risk during reassembly.

In one embodiment a portable test kit for measuring an air gap between a core and a pole of a rotor includes a capacitance sensor which measures a minimum air gap between the capacitance sensor and a pole and which generates a voltage signal proportional to the measured air gap a panel meter in communication with the capacitance sensor which interprets the voltage signal and displays the minimum air gap measurement between the core and the pole an A D converter in communication with the capacitance sensor which converts the voltage signal to a digitized signal and a control panel which receives the digitized signal from the A D converter and processes the digitized signal. The control panel collects and displays the minimum air gap measurement and displays a graphic of the core and surrounding poles. When testing between the core and one of the surrounding poles is complete the graphic of the pole tested visually darkens to indicate that portion of the test is complete. A case designed for portability contains the capacitance sensor the panel meter the A D converter and the control panel.

In another embodiment a non contact test method for measuring an air gap between a rotor core and a stationary pole which includes the steps of affixing a capacitance sensor to a core of a rotor. The capacitance sensor is arranged between the core and the stationary pole capturing the air gap measurement between the core and the pole with the capacitance sensor and displaying the air gap measurement.

In yet another embodiment a non contact test method for measuring an air gap between a rotating element and a stationary element includes affixing a capacitance sensor to a rotating element the capacitance sensor being arranged between the rotating element and a stationary element capturing an air gap measurement between the rotating element and the stationary element with the capacitance sensor and displaying the air gap measurement.

In still another embodiment a non contact test method for measuring an air gap between a rotating surface and a stationary element includes affixing a capacitance sensor to a stationary element the capacitance sensor being arranged between the rotating surface and the stationary element capturing an air gap measurement between the rotating surface and the stationary element with the capacitance sensor and displaying the air gap measurement.

A non contact electrical machine air gap test kit for measuring the air gap distance between a stationary element such as frame mounted poles and a rotating element such as the core of a rotating armature in electrical machinery includes a case containing a capacitance sensor a panel meter an A D converter and a control panel. All of the components of the test kit including the sensor the panel meter the A D converter and the control panel or panel PC are integrated together into a custom panel and case that is ideally configured for portability such with a handle shown in or a size or a shape conducive to portability. The air gap being measured is the distance between the core of the rotating armature and the frame mounted pole. As shown in the air gap is defined between a core of a rotor and a pole mounted to a frame .

In the embodiment shown in capacitance probe is in communication with wire . The probe is secured to the core and arranged to face the pole or other target being measured. The probe creates a capacitor between itself and the object being measured pole . The controller shown in measures this capacitance. In the foreground of a piece of tape is shown. Tape is used to provide strain relief and prevent rotational motion from pulling the sensor magnet combination off of the core of the rotor. The capacitance probe is positioned between the core and the pole within the air gap defined between the core and the pole . The capacitance probe is a modified commercial off the shelf COTS capacitive sensor and removably attaches to the core of the rotor beneath the stationary poles . In the embodiment of the capacitance probe is modified to include a magnet and an external reference lead . The magnet is used as a means for attaching the probe to the core . The magnet is preferably a neodymium magnet. The magnet is but one example of an adhesion device to attach the capacitance probe to the core . However any suitable means for attaching the capacitance probe to the core is acceptable and materials other than neodymium may be found suitable.

The capacitance probe is connected to the COTS controller shown in a fixture that is already referenced to ground. The controller outputs 0 10 VDC proportional to 0 inches to Full Scale inches of the probe which in the example embodiment being discussed would be 0.00 0.200 which is the distance from the face of the probe which is at 0 to the pole . The unit of measure in this example is inches but it could also be another unit of measure such as micrometers. Together the probe and the controller comprise the capacitance sensor .

The sensor is configured to measure a minimum air gap between the capacitance probe and pole and configured to generate a voltage signal proportional to the measured air gap . The measurement read by the probe is a measurement reflective of the distance from the face of the probe to the pole but not the desired reading from the core to the pole . To account for this the measurement needs to corrected by the amount of an offset. The offset shown in the embodiment of is comprised of the thickness of the probe plus the thickness of the magnet .

The voltage signal output of the sensor is interpreted and processed by panel meters shown in and also by an analog to digital A D converter . The A D converter is not seen in but is located internal to the panel PC shown in . The panel meters are in communication with the capacitance sensor and configured to interpret the voltage signal. Panel meters display the minimum air gap for the particular pole under test. An internal feature of the meters is that they are configurable to display and hold the minimum air gap reading between the core and the pole. It is important to note that as the probe is rotated beneath a pole the values measured go from maximum to minimum back to maximum. The minimum value is the value of interest. The minimum air gap measurement occurs when the sensor is rotated under the center of the pole . The two panel meters and are redundant. Generally the air gap readings are done one at a time however with two panel meters the assembly contains two channels. The spare channel provides a redundant channel in the case of channel failure. The second channel also provides the capability to measure both sides of the air gap at the same time. An air gap measurement at each end of the pole checks parallelism of the pole face to the rotor core .

The sensor is also in communication with the A D converter which is in further communication with the control panel or panel PC . On the face of the control panel is displayed a graphic of the core and its surrounding poles. The face of the control panel or panel PC is a touchscreen. An enlarged view of the face of the control panel is shown in . The control panel is adapted to receive a digitized signal from the A D converter and process the signal and configured to collect and display the minimum air gap measurement.

The COTS capacitive sensor has a known linear accuracy. In a known capacitive sensor the MTI Accumeasure 9000 the linear accuracy is 0.003 inches. Ideally the accuracy of the device for this application should be closer to 0.001 inches. The capacitive sensor comes with a calibration report. An example of a calibration report is shown in . The report shows the percent full scale accuracy on the y axis versus the gap being read on the x axis. The sensor inaccuracy is a known constant. In order to improve the accuracy of the sensor the calibration report is used to create a linearizing correction curve. This is done by breaking down the curve in the calibration report into ten linear segments and creating a piece wise linear scale for each of the ten segments. Both the automatic and manual modes of the tool both use this piece wise scale method to correct for the know inaccuracy of the sensor.

With the help of a calibration block shown in system accuracy is verified prior to each measurement being taken. The sensor is placed within three gaps of a known dimension that are incorporated on the face of the custom control panel i.e. calibration block . The gaps have three known steps spanning from the minimum dimension of the offset which in the exemplary embodiment is approximately 0.135 inches to a maximum dimension of the Full Scale of the probe range which in the exemplary embodiment is approximately 0.335 inches. Using the piece wise correction method discussed above the device measures within 0.001 inches this is the acceptable tolerance for this measurement system and by verifying it prior to taking each measurement the operator is assured that the system is operating properly.

There are two operating modes manual and automatic. The collected data is displayed through either the manual or automatic mode. The two modes may be operated at the same time or independently. The standard operating mode is considered to be the automatic collection mode. In either operation mode the processing is common to both. The minimum distance value between the rotor and the pole is considered the air gap and this is the distance displayed.

The manual mode makes use of the panel meters shown in . The panel meters yield a redundant display of the air gap measurements in real time. Redundant meters and modes allow for device operation in the case of a automatic mode failure. In the manual mode the capacitance probe which is secured to the core is manually rotated under each pole being tested to measure the air gap between the capacitance probe and the pole and the lowest minimum air gap reading is displayed on the meters . Each pole has its own minimum reading and the process must be repeated for each pole. The meter is then reset manually and the process repeated for each of the 16 poles that are arranged about the core in a 360 circle.

The automatic mode works in parallel with the meters . The automatic mode operates with custom software built into the control panel or panel PC and allows for automatic readings of all 16 air gaps through a 360 rotation. In the automatic mode the capacitance probe secured to the core is slowly advanced through a full 360 degree rotation so that each of the 16 poles that surround the core may be tested. As the capacitance probe is advanced the custom software collects the minimum air gap reading for each pole. The control panel collects and displays the minimum air gap measurement collected from a set of measurements taken. Preferably three measurements are taken at each station and then from that grouping of measurements the minimum air gap measurement is determined and selected to be displayed on the control panel by the custom software. On the face of the control panel is displayed a graphic of the core and its surrounding poles as shown in . When a test between the core and a pole is complete the graphic of the pole tested visually darkens to indicate that the pole has been tested and that portion of the test is complete. Because the sensor measures a probe to target distance an offset equal to the thickness of the probe plus the thickness of the magnet is added to the reading from the capacitive probe to determine the core to pole target distance. In the exemplary embodiment an offset of 0.135 inches would be added to the 0.000 0.200 reading from the capacitive probe to determine the core to pole distance 0.135 being the thickness of the capacitive probe.

The air gap test equipment signal layout is shown in . In operation the capacitance probe which is the PCR 50 probe for example senses the air gap and sends an electrical signal in this instance a 16 kHz signal to the controller . The controller is the MTI Accumeasure 9000 for example. The sensor sends an output 0 10 VDC which is read by the A D converter and by the panel meters . The sensor outputs a voltage 10 VDC when the pole is out of range. The 10 VDC correlates to Full Scale inches which indicates the target or pole is out of range. In the exemplary embodiment the output voltage of 10 VDC correlates to 0.335 inches. The A D converter may for example be the USP 6008 produced by National Instruments. The sensor output of the sensor is a linear voltage proportional to the air gap. The A D converter sends the sensor output in a digital format or digitized form to the custom software onboard the control panel that processes the data and produces the air gap measurement.

The custom software may be written for example with the Lab VIEW compiler. The program works to allow for automatic readings of all 16 air gaps through a 360 rotation. The program corrects to the calibration curve maintains each pole s profile and logs the minimum reading accomplished through three major execution steps 1 a data surveying while loop 2 a data collection while loop and 3 an indicating for loop. A status flag is used to control process flow. A false status flag keeps the program in the data surveying loop. The data surveying loop can change the flag value from false to true. A true flag transfers the program to the data collection loop. At completion of the data collection the false status flag is reset to true.

The data surveying loop is the loop that initializes on program startup and initiates program flow. It is the overall while loop and is controlled by a stop button on the graphical user interface GUI . Each iteration of the loop collects a distance value from the A D converter. The expected values are from 0 Full Scale which in the example embodiment is 0.135 0.335 . If the measured value is greater than Full Scale or in this example embodiment greater than 0.333 it is assumed that the sensor is in between two poles rather than under a pole and it checks for the distance value again. Data values greater than Full Scale is not processed and the status flag remains false. If the first value measured is less than Full Scale it is assumed that the sensor has been rotated beneath a pole. The data surveying loop in this case changes the status flag to true thereby enabling the data collection loop.

The data collection loop is nested internal to the data surveying while loop in the custom program. The status flag initiates the data collection loop and interrupts the data surveying loop. The data surveying loop is a while loop based on the current value. The expected values in this loop are less than Full Scale. If the values are less than Full Scale the data collection loop stays locked in. The current value is added to an auto indexing array. This array continues to build as long as the current value is less than Full Scale. If the first value is greater than Full Scale then the data collection loop stops and the array is complete. This would happen as the sensor is rotated past the pole being tested and is between two poles just before coming beneath the next pole to be tested. The array with the collected is then processed to determine the lowest value. The lowest value is then sent to the indicating for loop.

The indicating for loop is internal to the data surveying loop of the custom program and operates once when the status flag has been set and after the data collection loop is complete. It displays the processed lowest value in the appropriate indication on the graphical user interface or GUI. The initial display index is zero. The first time the status flag is set the lowest value is displayed at indicator zero . The status flag is reset to false and the display index is incremented by one. Once the value is displayed the data surveying loop continues. The next time the for loop is called the air gap measurement will be displayed in indicator one . The correlation between display index and the actual pole being read relies on the user. For example index zero is always the first pole measured followed by the second pole measured. The custom program assumes the sensor is started in a particular location and rotated in one direction. In this manner all 16 pole measurements are successively displayed without interruption. Measurement of the entire machine takes less than five minutes. Post correction of the data all readings are accurate within 0.002 . At the completion of the measurements a screen shot is logged for future access as shown in .

The uses of this kit are not limited to air gap testing but may include other electrical motor diagnostic features. As shown in one such embodiment would include mounting the sensor to a fixed location and rotating a surface beneath. The A D converter combined with the panel PC could monitor dynamic run out of surfaces such as slip rings while a machine is operational.

The many features and advantages of the invention are apparent from the detailed specification and thus it is intended by the appended claims to cover all such features and advantages of the invention which fall within the true spirit and scope of the invention. Further since numerous modifications and variations will readily occur to those skilled in the art it is not desired to limit the invention to the exact construction and operation illustrated and described and accordingly all suitable modifications and equivalents may be resorted to falling within the scope of the invention.

