---

title: Hemispherical drive for autonomic and unconstrained actuation of flapping fins with variable amplitude
abstract: A small hemispherical drive apparatus actuates the cilia to undergo the limit cycle oscillations. Electromagnets are positioned on a housing of the apparatus. A gimbal with shaft is also attached to the housing. The shaft has a first end within the housing that is proximally separated and remains separated from the electromagnets as the shaft rotates. Generated signals excite electromagnets in sequence to produce an electromagnetic track for the shaft.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09377806&OS=09377806&RS=09377806
owner: 
number: 09377806
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20160211
---
This application is a divisional application and claims the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 164 360 filed on Jan. 27 2014 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 849 912 filed on Jan. 28 2013 by the inventor Dr. Promode Bandyopadhyay and entitled ACOUSTO OPTICAL METHOD OF ENCODING AND VISUALIZATION OF UNDERWATER SPACE .

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates to an autonomic based method of nonlinear phase encoding and hologram based transmission of coded echoes from an unstructured underwater environment with real time decoding and visualization of the environment.

Visualizing underwater space particularly in three dimensions and in real time is of utmost importance. This visualization is accomplished mostly by passive or active sonar devices. Advanced arrays have been developed with serious shortcomings. Therefore alternative concepts theories and hardware are needed that would lead to a fundamentally different approach to visualizing underwater space.

In the natural world large swimming animals such as dolphins inhabit shallow waters and whales inhabit the deeper ocean. These separate species communicate with each other in each species and accurately detect objects. There is evidence that dolphins create an image of the environment using sonar in which the image is similar to the visible part of the electromagnetic spectrum. There does not seem to be much difference in the manner of detection between nearly blinded dolphins when in turbid rivers and the dolphins in oceans where there is more visibility.

Co directivity is describable to justify a nonlinear approach to acoustic encoding of the environment. It is assumed that animals have to remain in synchrony with the environment to survive. It is also assumed that for persistent synchrony with the environment the sensors motion control neurons and the actuators need to have the same dynamics namely nonlinear oscillatory autonomic. In other words self correcting dynamics of the Na and Ca ions in the membranes are closely related to the sensing and the flopping of motion actuators.

Neurons evolved to allow movement of life forms from point to point. The brain became more complicated to fulfill the needs of movements that had to be more complicated. Complexities in environments require a great deal of sensing which creates a difficult problem in the design of autonomous platforms. The question of should there be any rational foundation of integrating sensors controllers and actuators in a platform is considered.

Observations made in the hearing and swimming propulsion of animals suggest that animals have common dynamics probably determined by an intervening controller. Simulations are subsequently carried out which show that benefits in homing may accrue from such common dynamics which exhibits a preferred handedness . It is hypothesized that sensors controllers and actuators have common autonomic oscillatory nonlinear dynamics. This allows animals to be in persistent oscillatory synchrony with the environment.

The dynamics of the olivo cerebellar neuron is measured using an analog circuit. Features of observed trajectories of bats and of cilium of paramecium are calculated using the olivo cerebellar dynamics and it is suggested that chaos helps a platform to adapt to changes in environment.

To understand how animals achieve such feats is there any common foundation in their sensing control and propulsion Animals can have a large number of sensors in their body for mapping the environment and sensing changes. In manmade platforms an increase in sensing is demanding on processing and coordination with the controller and the motion actuators. Therefore it is reasonable to expect that a common foundation in sensing control and the mechanism of propulsion could be the key to autonomy. In this work there is evidence for the existence of such a common foundation and carry out simulations of motion to determine advantages that such a foundation might offer. Finally the notional design of a nonlinear volumetric and metachromic sensor is possible in which the design could offer autonomy in an unstructured environment that seem to be lacking in man made platforms of today.

It is important to understand that muscles of animals are vibrating at roughly 10 Hz however imperceptible the amplitude at a given instant may be. This vibration is not monochromatic and is nonlinear. Note that the motion of animals is controlled by inferior olive neurons which are mathematically described as coupled nonlinear oscillators that are slightly unstable. They have a property called Self Referential Phase Reset whereby an external impulse can bring any number of de correlated actuators muscles into a common phase.

It has been proposed that persistent synchrony with the environment in all animals the motion control inferior olive neurons the actuators muscles and the sensors operate on the same nonlinear dynamical system principles. Using this assumption and some principles of handedness it was shown that a platform animal would be able to home on to a moving target faster.

In order to enhance detection a need therefore exists for an accessible version of the visualization process presently used in the natural world.

Accordingly it is a general purpose and primary object of the present invention to provide a method for visualizing underwater space.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a method for nonlinear phase encoding and hologram based transmission of coded echoes from an underwater environment.

It is a still further object of the present invention to provide a hemispherical drive apparatus that provides cilium actuation receptive to nonlinear phase encoding.

To attain the objects described the term cilium is used to define a transducer that is non linear with an oscillating flexible line in which the flexible line is anchored at one end. The dynamics of a cilium is provided by a second order non linear ordinary differential equation. Normally the cilium vibrates in a track that is described as a limit cycle . In other words the cilium has self correcting dynamics. This self correcting control is termed autonomic .

It has been found that the motion of a cilium can be calculated by summing the orthogonal oscillations of the cilium. In the present invention the torques are applied by a hemispherical drive apparatus to the cilium with the apparatus providing a limit cycle oscillation LCO . When a perturbation is applied to a cilium the cilium will be disturbed from the limit cycle track.

During operation reference coding and an echo coding of a target is created a hologram is transmitted and the hologram is decoded at a remote point. The reference coding includes acoustic illumination that disturbs the limit cycle oscillation of the cilium. This disturbed limit cycle oscillation is recorded as a reference hologram. Acoustic illumination upon the target is echoed to a dense cluster of the cilia on which the echo is encoded. A temporal wave amplitude direction and frequency content get encoded into the cilium position and posture. The track and speed with which the cilium returns to the limit cycle oscillation the autonomic properties of the cilium provides information on an input disturbance to the cilia.

Metachronism is used to read input to the cilium. A wave motion of a group of cilia is called a metachronic wave. The metachronic wave is a footprint of a large scale external impulse created by the motion of individual vibrating elements.

Also each cilium is time dependent. Being time dependent provides the ability to encode a large amount of amplitude and phase information. Restated the cilium motion is a limit cycle oscillation. If an input disturbance dislodges the cilium motion of the limit cycle from point A to B the autonomic properties will return the cilium to the limit cycle oscillation after the disturbance has passed. The disturbance properties such as strength direction and frequency plus the arrival time determines the location of A and B. The path and speed that the cilium takes from B to return to the limit cycle oscillation are provided by autonomic equations. The equations also provide the required input disturbance properties.

The individual cilia are also sensitive to the direction and amplitude of the wave. If the wave is nonlinear and has a phase identity then the collection of cilia will produce a visual image of the imposed disturbance. If there is a reference motion due to a transmitted wave and the later imposed wave is an echo then by differencing with the transmitted wave an image of the surroundings from which the echo originates can be created.

In a multi cilia configuration when a neighboring cilia beats with a constant phase difference the overall wave pattern is termed metachronic. For encoding the acoustically painted object a metachronic wave pattern would have to be created using the multi cilia configuration. The echo distorts the autonomous reference metachronic wave pattern. This distortion is optically measured via the clustered pattern of the changes in the curvature and the torsion of individual cilia.

The system of the present invention also includes a hemispherical drive apparatus for cilium actuation in which the apparatus includes a plurality of electromagnets with each electromagnet having corresponding latitude and longitude coordinates.

The drive apparatus further comprises a gimbal positioned in a housing of the apparatus and a shaft attached to the gimbal. The gimbal allows the shaft to roll and oscillate in different planes wherein each plane is orthogonal to the other planes. The shaft remains spaced apart from the electromagnetic array by a predetermined distance as the shaft roll and oscillates. A fin is attached to an end portion of the shaft spaced apart from the housing.

The drive apparatus further comprises a control system with a controller for storing the coordinates of each electromagnet. The control system also includes signal generation circuitry for outputting signals that excite electromagnets in a predetermined order. The excitation of the electromagnets produces an electromagnetic track having flux lines that flow through the shaft thereby causing the fin to flap.

The control system also includes a computer for programming the controller with at least one sequence of latitude and longitude coordinates of electromagnets that are to be sequentially excited order in order to form the electromagnetic track. One pair of adjacent electromagnets is excited at a time and each succeeding pair of excited electromagnets is adjacent to a pair of previously excited electromagnets.

The control system drives a fin or cilium. For use of the flapping fin the advantages of the hemispherical drive apparatus over conventional shaft and gear drives are common oscillating shafts have nonuniform wear hence there is leakage the shafts each require too many gears the shaft drives have vibration backlash and are noisy and the shaft drives are cumbersome in the actuation of roll and pitch.

In the description the term cilium is used to define an individual transducer. A cilium is non linear with a three dimensional oscillating flexible line in which the flexible line is anchored at one end. The dynamics of a cilium is provided by a second order non linear ordinary differential equation. Normally the cilium vibrates in a track that is described as a limit cycle . In other words the cilium has self correcting dynamics.

If the vibration is damped the cilium is naturally amplified to return the motion to the limit cycle. Alternatively if the vibration is amplified the cilium is naturally suppressed whereby the vibration returns to the limit cycle. This self correcting sensor less control is termed autonomic .

Referring now to it has been found that the motion of a cilium can be created by summing the orthogonal oscillations of the cilium. As per aero elasticity theory in certain frequency ranges and depending on the viscosity of the surrounding fluid the motions can couple and there can be an exchange of energy between the motions. For an animal such as paramecium these torques are applied by the animal.

In the present invention such torques are applied as a limit cycle oscillation LCO by a hemispherical drive apparatus see . When a perturbation is applied to a cilium the cilium will be disturbed from the limit cycle track. The perturbation tensor is encoded in a map of a disturbed state space. The amplitude and phase of each cilium can be tensorially represented. The tensor is encoded into the temporal position velocity and acceleration of the cilium multitude.

Generally a target object is coded a hologram is transmitted and the hologram is decoded at a remote point. The target exists in unstructured temporal space and is coded with an imprint of the three dimensional space representing numerous elements. The three dimensional space can be separated into numerous mirrors slanted at different orientations from which an incident sound returns to the cilium. The echo from each mirror will include information on range orientation and softness hardness material composition. The imprint is transmitted decoded and a virtual object is created.

Returning to and in step a metachronic three dimensional pattern is reflected in the reference and echo hologram and in step the two metachronic patterns are converted into two holograms a video of each cilium motion and their grouping is converted into a hologram . In step the holograms are transmitted to a remote location and in step the holograms are formulated and displayed. In step the object target is decoded by differentiating the reference hologram from the echo hologram differentiation is achievable by existing technology . Lastly in step the virtual object representing the target is displayed.

Unlike a monochromatic frequency sweep of conventional sonar in the present invention the object target is painted by a defined nonlinear acoustic wave packet. Due to the delayed arrival of the echo the reference wave packet acts to start the limit cycle on the cilium . The echo arrives and disturbs the trajectories of the cilium . Minimal energy input emission of one wave packet is needed in the environment in active mode and continuous emission is not required.

Due to the nonlinear wave packet nature of the paint the coherence in the littoral reverberating areas is not lost. In explanation by natural world use dolphins use chirps wave packets to ping objects in shallow water littoral regions and the wave packets do not lose their coherence. In signal processing using Fourier decomposition relationships between frequencies are not easy to compute and are not frequently considered. In the natural world chirps wave packets retain an identity over a distance because the wave packet consists of a specific group of frequencies that are related thru the same mechanism equations with specific amplitudes dominant frequency content and phase relationship. The underlying mechanism is common to self regulation.

The reference acoustic wave packet can be dolphin inspired. A library of dolphin pings can be used as the diagnostic wave packet in the present invention. Such wave packets have a range of frequencies and maintain coherence in the reverberating environment of the shallow waters of a littoral ocean.

Typically wave packets appear in a burst. However on inspection there are time gaps between sub bursts during which the echo is received. The bursts are tuned and altered based on the echo. These pings are calibrated for the boundary conditions of the tasks. The dolphin ping library can be used for both the reference and the echo generation.

Described below is a theory of operation of the present invention. The operation is not meant to limit the present invention but instead provides a theory as to the usefulness of the invention.

The map in is two dimensional however three dimensional maps can be created using the states z v w see Equation 1 . The speed and path that the system takes to return to the limit cycle B to C after being disturbed by the echo A to B can be described by vectors u x t . Although pressure is scalar the dynamics of the sound waves has been encoded using tensor. The conversion of echo pressure data to cilium position data is an encoding. It should be noted that a linearly vibrating rod does not have the ability to capture the amount of phase information as would a nonlinearly vibrating element.

Equation 1 shows the description of the inferior olive neuron dynamics that controls the motion of animals. This description shows two coupled nonlinear oscillators the nonlinear terms are given by p . The oscillator is given by second order ordinary differential equations.

The upper oscillator which has a spikey and rich dynamic is not needed. Instead the transducer motion is modeled as a nonlinear oscillator where for the ith oscillator the states zand ware given by the differential Equation 2 . 2 where the nonlinear function is given by p z z z a 1 z is a constant parameter controlling the time scale ais a constant parameter associated with the nonlinear function and I is a constant parameter. Equation 2 can be written as 0 3 where F is a cubic polynomial function and k is a constant. Equation 3 resembles Lienard s oscillator in contrast the function F is a well defined quadratic in the familiar van der Pol s oscillator . The oscillator exhibits a closed orbit in the state space that is z w which is also known as limit cycle oscillation with the constant parameters determining the form of the closed orbit.

A multiplicity of nonlinear sensors captures additional relative phase information. One example considers two sensors where i 1 and 2 in Equation 2 . The temporal relationship between the two oscillators is shown in and . Note that while limit cycle oscillation exists in each oscillator the relationship between the two oscillators is not resonant and the relationship is changing. The incident nonlinear acoustic wave packets the reference or the echo would affect each transducer differently and would also have a joint spatially distributed effect.

The nonlinear interactive approach would be able to capture the effect. This is an example of phase information that a row of linearly oscillating transducers would not be able to capture. The nonlinear oscillators in Equation 2 are self correcting therefore the oscillators robustly capture the phase information.

The wave motion of a group of cilia is called a metachronic wave. The metachronic wave is a collective footprint of a large scale external impulse created by the motion of individual vibrating elements. Therefore individual cilia are time dependent and are sensitive to the direction and amplitude of the wave. If the wave is nonlinear and is a packet of waves that has a phase identity then the collection of cilia will produce a visual image of the imposed disturbance. If there is a reference motion due to a transmitted wave and the later imposed wave is an echo then by differencing with the transmitted wave an image of the surroundings from which the echo is coming can be created. This can be described by the difference set or tensor. In a planar situation an orthogonal axis system exists wherein along one of the axes the cilia will be in phase and orthogonal to the plane where the cilia are in phase there will be a phase difference between the neighboring cilia. The spacing between the neighboring cilia has to be of a certain value for the metachronic wave to develop autonomously. Spacing depends on the cilium length and fluid viscosity in which the cilium are submerged and the rotational frequencies of the cilium.

The nonlinear dynamics of the metachromic wave pattern is robust due to autonomous control of the wave pattern. This is an analog solution and therefore is comparatively fast and less computer intensive. This is an important departure from current theories of sonar transducers which are basically linear and digital. The current approach is similar to a closed form solution. Displacement accuracy of the transducer is on the order of Angstroms. Because electronics is not involved frequency resolution is high.

The hemispherical housing includes a cover for the interior . The hemispherical housing also includes a waterproof membrane which is disposed over the cover See . The waterproof membrane has a side which contacts the cover and a side which is exposed to water seawater .

The hemispherical drive apparatus further comprises a gimbal that is attached to the hemispherical housing and located on the waterproof membrane . The hemispherical drive apparatus also comprises a shaft that is attached to gimbal such that the shaft is able to roll and oscillate in different planes wherein one plane or rotational axis is orthogonal to the other plane or rotational axis.

In the shaft has a first end portion which comprises ferromagnetic material and is located within the interior of the hemispherical housing . In one embodiment the first end is configured as a rounded section. The shaft further comprises a second end portion which is external to the interior . The first end is spaced apart from the array of electromagnets by a predetermined distance D. The first end remains spaced apart at the predetermined distance D as the shaft rotates in roll oscillation planes 1 and 2 See . The first end does not contact the electromagnets .

As shown in the shaft has a hollow interior and an internal shaft located within the interior. The internal shaft is free to rotate within the hollow interior of the shaft about pitch axis . An internal pitch motor not shown is located within the hollow interior of the shaft and rotates the internal shaft about the pitch axis . The internal pitch motor may receive control signals from a control system shown in .

Returning to the hemispherical drive apparatus further comprises a propulsion fin that is attached to a distal end of the internal shaft . The drive apparatus can be built in 10 centimeter large scale for flapping fin propulsion as well as 100 micron small scale for cilium actuation at a small scale. The cilium length may be 17 microns with a diameter of 1 micron. Both flapping fins and cilium motion follow known nonlinear autonomic equations. Both flapping fins and cilium reject disturbances autonomically without the need of any sensor or controller and are robust as a result.

The fin functions as a flapping fin with a leading edge and trailing edge . The fin is attached at the chord point at the end of the internal shaft . Measured from the leading edge the fin is hinged for pitch at this distance of c 3 where c is the fin chord. Pitching at c 3 maximizes hydro efficiency.

As the internal shaft rotates about the pitch axis the flapping fin also rotates about the pitch axis . Since pitch oscillation occurs internally to the shaft there is no leakage. A first plane of oscillation is roll oscillation 1 and a second plane of oscillation is roll oscillation . Roll oscillation plane 2 is orthogonal to roll oscillation plane 1.

The viability of the hemispherical drive apparatus can be estimated by calculating the magnetomotive force F as 

Referring to the control system generates signals that sequentially excite the predetermined electromagnets in accordance with a programmed sequential order. Exciting the predetermined electromagnets produces an electromagnetic track. An example of an electromagnetic track is shown in . The electromagnetic track is in the form of a figure eight pattern or a curve. It is to be understood that the center of the electromagnetic track does not need to be at the center of the hemispherical housing . The length of the shaft in centimeters determines the scale in millimeters of the figure eight electromagnet track . Since the first end of the shaft comprises ferromagnetic material the flux lines created by the excited electromagnets pass through the ferromagnetic material. As a result the first end moves along the electromagnetic track . Due to the function of the gimbal the movement of the first end causes movement of the fin .

Referring again to the control system comprises a controller . The controller has a programmable processor that stores the latitude and longitude coordinates of each electromagnet and a plurality of sequences of latitude and longitude coordinates of the electromagnets that are to be excited in sequential order in order to produce the electromagnetic track . Each sequence of latitude and longitude coordinates of the electromagnets comprises a sequence of latitude and longitude coordinates of pairs of adjacent electromagnets. One pair of adjacent electromagnets is excited at a time and each succeeding pair of excited electromagnets is adjacent to a pair of previously excited electromagnets. In such an embodiment the electromagnetic track lies between the electromagnets of each pair of adjacent electromagnets.

The controller outputs digital signals that contain data that correspond to the latitude and longitude coordinates of the electromagnets that are to be excited. The control system includes input output circuitry that comprises an array of six analog circuits that solve the second ordinary nonlinear ordinary differential equations governing the self regulating process which is represented by Equation 5 in the ensuing description.

The input output circuitry outputs signals that are inputted into a digital to analog converter DAQ . The DAQ converts the signals to analog signals that are inputted into the array of electromagnets of the hemispherical drive apparatus . A status signal is outputted by the array of electromagnets and inputted into the DAQ .

The control system further comprises a computer . The computer is used to program the controller and is also in signal communication with the DAQ via a data bus . The computer generates DAQ control signals for input into the DAQ . The computer programs the programmable processor of controller with the plurality of different sequences of latitude and longitude coordinates of the electromagnets that are to be excited in sequential order.

The control system allows the center of the electromagnetic track to be displaced to a desired position that is not at the center of the hemispherical housing . The control system also allows for distortion of the curve of the electromagnetic track . This feature allows formation of an electromagnetic track that follows a pattern or curve other than a figure eight.

The fin can be flapped in a desired orientation by using the control system to excite certain electromagnets to produce an electromagnetic track that vectors the required fin force.

Since the shaft is not rotating about the pitch axis there is no leakage at the point where the shaft penetrates the waterproof membrane . Furthermore since the internal shaft rotates internal to the shaft there is no leakage. The pitch oscillation occurs within the hollow interior of the shaft thereby eliminating the possibility of leakage. The elimination of leakage extends component life and the duration of a mission.

The diagram of the electromagnet shown in was used to model the force produced by each electromagnet. The magneto motive force F is given by Equation 5 

Compared to the magnetic permeability of cold rolled steel is 2000 times larger. For a l 3 4 mm at i 1.5 A both Equation 5 and measurement of maximum force lead to a force of 0.74 N. In one embodiment the coils are formed by 266 turns of wire . The wire is preferably 26 AWG wire.

The hemispherical drive apparatus actuates the flapping fin for low speed maneuvering and effects resonant oscillation of the fin. Resonant oscillation of the fin is desired for several reasons a displacement is amplified b disturbances are rejected c friction is reduced and quality factor Q is increased ratio of maximum kinetic energy to the total input energy and d the motion of the shaft follows set parameters without the need for any sensors or any conventional closed loop control. These properties are realized mathematically by input output circuitry and are known as self regulation. In accordance with the present invention olivo cerebellar dynamics are used to describe the mathematical form of the self regulation. The model of the Iion related controller is given by Equation 6 

The nonlinear function is represented by Equation 7 1 7 The function I t is the extracellular stimulus which is used for the purpose of control e.g. changing the motion of paramecium direction . If the function I t 0 then the nonlinear function is given by Equation 8 1 8 wherein ais a constant parameter associated with the nonlinear function. Equation 6 can be written as Equation 9 which represents the oscillation dot over 0 9 wherein F is a cubic polynomial function and k is a constant. The oscillator exhibits a closed orbit in the state space z that is z w which is also known as limit cycle oscillation LCO the constant parameters determining the form of . Equation 2 is solved using the analog oscillators of input output circuitry see .

The hemispherical drive apparatus of the present invention provides many benefits and advantages. The drive apparatus is gearless and frictionless and has a significantly lower noise level compared to prior art flapping fin propulsion systems. The drive apparatus consumes relatively less power than prior art systems has a high quality factor Q and extends the duration of the mission. The drive apparatus provides roll oscillation in two planes thereby making the degree of freedom more similar to an animal. The drive apparatus can be used to provide a self regulating trajectory to objects that require very small forces e.g. cilium based nonlinear transducer . The drive apparatus is a modular design and also has the potential to reduce actuator drive size.

The drive apparatus can be adapted for use in orthopedic reconstruction. For example the drive apparatus can be developed as an elbow cap knee cap or hip replacement. The hemispherical drive can also be used in the field of robotics.

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiments of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. It is not intended to be exhaustive nor to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

