---

title: Powering RFID tags using multiple synthesized-beam RFID readers
abstract: Synthesized-beam RFID readers may be used to manage and provide information about RFID tag populations. In one embodiment, two or more synthesized-beam readers synthesize respective RF beams towards a tag location. The synthesized-beam readers may coordinate their pointing by means of a controller, a peer-to-peer network, or by using a master-slave arrangement. The synthesized-beam readers may coordinate their transmissions to increase the RF energy available to a tag at the pointing location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09652643&OS=09652643&RS=09652643
owner: IMPINJ, INC
number: 09652643
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160321
---
This application is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of a co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 388 793 filed on Sep. 26 2014 which is a national phase application of International Application no. PCT US14 26319 filed on Mar. 13 2014 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 784 035 filed on Mar. 14 2013 and 61 887 238 filed on Oct. 4 2013. The disclosures of these provisional patent applications are hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.

Radio Frequency Identification RFID systems typically include RFID readers also known as RFID reader writers or RFID interrogators and RFID tags. RFID systems can be used in many ways for locating and identifying objects to which the tags are attached. RFID systems are useful in product related and service related industries for tracking objects being processed inventoried or handled. In such cases an RFID tag is usually attached to an individual item or to its package.

In principle. RFID techniques entail using an RFID reader to inventory one or more RFID tags where inventorying involves at least singulating a tag and receiving an identifier from the singulated tag where singulated is defined as an individual tag singled out by a reader potentially from among multiple tags and an identifier is defined as any number identifying the tag or the item to which the tag is attached such as a tag identifier TID an electronic product code EPC etc. . The reader transmitting a Radio Frequency RF wave performs the interrogation. The RF wave is typically electromagnetic at least in the far field. The RF wave can also be predominantly electric or magnetic in the near field. The RF wave may encode one or more commands that instruct the tags to perform one or more actions. In typical RFID systems an RFID reader transmits a modulated RF inventory signal a command receives a tag reply and transmits an RF acknowledgement signal responsive to the tag reply.

A tag that senses the interrogating RF wave may respond by transmitting back another RF wave. The tag either generates the transmitted back RF wave originally or by reflecting back a portion of the interrogating RF wave in a process known as backscatter. Backscatter may take place in a number of ways.

The reflected back RF wave may encode data stored in the tag such as a number. The response is demodulated and decoded by the reader which thereby identifies counts or otherwise interacts with the associated item. The decoded data can denote a serial number a price a date a destination other attribute s any combination of attributes and so on. Accordingly when a reader receives tag data it can learn about the item that hosts the tag and or about the tag itself.

An RFID tag typically includes an antenna section a radio section a power management section and frequently a logical section a memory or both. In some RFID tags the power management section included an energy storage device such as a battery. RFID tags with an energy storage device are known as battery assisted semi active or active tags. Other RFID tags can be powered solely by the RF signal they receive. Such RFID tags do not include an energy storage device and are called passive tags. Of course even passive tags typically include temporary energy and data flag storage elements such as capacitors or inductors.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Embodiments are directed to powering RFID tags using multiple synthesized beam RFID readers. A synthesized beam RFID reader which comprises at least one RFID reader and an antenna array electrically synthesizes multiple beam patterns by adjusting the signals provided to the antenna elements of the array. The multiple beam patterns may point in different physical directions may provide different beam shapes may provide different physical coverage or a may provide mix of these attributes. The reader may comprise single or multiple transmitters single or multiple receivers be separate from and connected to elements of the antenna array or be distributed and embedded within the elements of the array. Either the reader or an array controller may adjust the phase and or amplitude of the signals provided to the array elements to synthesize the multiple beams. The antenna array may comprise multiple discrete antenna elements or may employ a continuous structure that can emulate multiple antennas. By switching among the beams a synthesized beam reader may scan its environment essentially steering its gaze in different directions and with potentially different beam shapes as it scans. As a simple but not limiting example of a synthesized beam system consider the antenna array on a U.S. Navy ship that forms a synthesized beam radar and envision the radar scanning the environment to inventory RFID tags rather than scanning the environment to detect distant ships or airplanes. Like a synthesized beam radar a synthesized beam RFID reader may use multiple RF frequencies different beam shapes different beam directions and different signal waveshapes to inventory locate track its target tags.

Embodiments are directed to interrogating defined as inventorying and or accessing an RFID tag using multiple synthesized beam RFID readers. A first synthesized beam reader synthesizes a first beam to inventory a tag at a certain physical location. A second synthesized beam reader simultaneously synthesizes a second beam towards the same physical location to boost or otherwise improve the likelihood or the performance of the interrogation. Unlike radar systems interrogating remote objects RFID tags extract power from the interrogating wave and modulate their antenna reflectance to generate a backscattered signal. Even more unlike radar systems some RFID tags are able to extract power from a wave transmitted by one reader even as they are responding to an interrogating signal in the wave transmitted by another. In these embodiments the first reader will transmit commands to and receive responses from the tag while the second will transmit an unmodulated or minimally modulated wave to the tag to boost the tag s extracted power and thereby extend its interrogation range.

Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many possible variants on the above described two reader scenario. As one example the first reader may transmit commands the second reader may transmit power and the second reader rather than the first may receive the tag s responses. As another example the first reader may transmit commands to and receive responses from the tag while second and third or perhaps even more RFID readers deliver power to the tag. As yet another example both first and second RFID readers may transmit the same command to the tag thereby delivering both a stronger command signal and more power to the tag.

Embodiments are directed to methods of directing at least two synthesized beam RFID readers to point to a common physical location to inventory an RFID tag. Such methods may include one synthesized beam reader acting as a master and directing other readers to point to the location peer to peer communications among synthesized beam RFID readers to indicate the location or a controller directing the synthesized beam RFID readers to point to the location. The directing may include choosing the physical location the beam shape the duration of the interrogation the transmit frequencies of the various synthesized beam RFID readers which reader s is are sending commands and which are sending RF power the commands to be transmitted command parameters such as datarate modulation format reply frequency and other communication parameters as will be well known to those skilled in the art which readers are receiving the tag response the polarization of the transmit and receive beams the transmit power and the receive sensitivity.

Embodiments are also directed to techniques for tracking an RFID tag using synthesized beam RFID readers including using flag refresh commands to segment RFID tag subpopulations and thereby evaluate or predict tag movement within a background of stationary tags.

These and other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are explanatory only and are not restrictive of aspects as claimed.

In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments or examples. These embodiments or examples may be combined other aspects may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

As used herein memory is one of ROM RAM SRAM DRAM NVM EEPROM FLASH Fuse MRAM FRAM and other similar information storage technologies as will be known to those skilled in the art. Some portions of memory may be writeable and some not. Command refers to a reader request for one or more tags to perform one or more actions and includes one or more instructions. Instruction refers to a request to a tag to perform an action e.g. write data into memory . Program refers to a request to a tag to perform a set or sequence of instructions e.g. read a value from memory and if the read value is less than a threshold then lock a memory word . Protocol refers to an industry standard for communications between a reader and a tag and vice versa such as the Class 1 Generation 2 UHF RFID Protocol for Communications at 860 MHz 960 MHz by GS1 EPCglobal Inc. Gen2 Specification versions 1.2.0 and 2.0.0 of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Reader and tag communicate via signals and which are amplitude and or phase modulated waves. When communicating each encodes modulates and transmits data to the other and each receives demodulates and decodes data from the other. The data can be modulated onto and demodulated from RF waves such as for signals and . The RF waves are typically in a suitable range of frequencies such as those near 900 MHz 13.56 MHz and so on.

The communication between reader and tag uses symbols also called RFID symbols. A symbol can be a delimiter a calibration value and so on. Symbols can be implemented for exchanging binary data such as 0 and 1 if that is desired. When symbols are processed by reader and tag they can be treated as values numbers and so on.

Tag can be a passive tag or an active or battery assisted tag i.e. a tag having its own power source . When tag is a passive tag it is powered from signal .

Tag is typically although not necessarily formed on a substantially planar inlay which can be made in many ways known in the art. Tag includes a circuit which may be implemented as an IC . In some embodiments IC is implemented in complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS technology. In other embodiments IC may be implemented in other technologies such as bipolar junction transistor BJT technology metal semiconductor field effect transistor MESFET technology and others as will be well known to those skilled in the art. IC is arranged on inlay .

Tag also includes an antenna for exchanging wireless signals with its environment. The antenna is often flat and attached to inlay . IC is electrically coupled to the antenna via suitable IC contacts not shown in . The term electrically coupled as used herein means that a low impedance path exists between the electrically coupled components and may mean the presence of a direct electrical connection or a connection that includes one or more intervening circuit blocks elements or devices. The electrical part of the term electrically coupled as used in this document shall mean a coupling that is one or more of ohmic galvanic capacitive and or inductive. Similarly the term electrically isolated as used herein means that electrical coupling of one or more types e.g. galvanic capacitive and or inductive is not present at least to the extent possible. For example elements that are electrically isolated from each other are galvanically isolated from each other capacitively isolated from each other and or inductively isolated from each other. Of course electrically isolated components will generally have some unavoidable stray capacitive or inductive coupling between them but the intent of the isolation is to minimize this stray coupling to a negligible level when compared with an electrically coupled path.

IC is shown with a single antenna port comprising two IC contacts electrically coupled to two antenna segments and which are shown here forming a dipole. Many other embodiments are possible using any number of ports contacts antennas and or antenna segments.

Diagram depicts top and side views of tag formed using a strap. Tag differs from tag in that it includes a substantially planar strap substrate having strap contacts and . IC is mounted on strap substrate such that the IC contacts on IC electrically couple to strap contacts and via suitable connections not shown . Strap substrate is then placed on inlay such that strap contacts and electrically couple to antenna segments and . Strap substrate may be affixed to inlay via pressing an interface layer one or more adhesives or any other suitable means.

Diagram depicts a side view of an alternative way to place strap substrate onto inlay . Instead of strap substrate s surface including strap contacts facing the surface of inlay strap substrate is placed with its strap contacts facing away from the surface of inlay . Strap contacts can then be either capacitively coupled to antenna segments through strap substrate or conductively coupled using a through via which may be formed by crimping strap contacts to antenna segments . In some embodiments the positions of strap substrate and inlay may be reversed with strap substrate mounted beneath strap substrate and strap contacts electrically coupled to antenna segments through inlay . Of course in yet other embodiments strap contacts may electrically couple to antenna segments through both inlay and strap substrate .

In operation the antenna receives a signal and communicates it to IC which both harvests power and responds if appropriate based on the incoming signal and the IC s internal state. If IC uses backscatter modulation then it responds by modulating the antenna s reflectance which generates response signal from signal transmitted by the reader. Electrically coupling and uncoupling the antenna contacts of IC can modulate the antenna s reflectance as can varying the admittance of a shunt connected circuit element which is coupled to the antenna contacts. Varying the impedance of a series connected circuit element is another means of modulating the antenna s reflectance.

In the embodiments of antenna segments and are separate from IC . In other embodiments the antenna segments may alternatively be formed on IC . Tag antennas according to embodiments may be designed in any form and are not limited to dipoles. For example the tag antenna may be a patch a slot a loop a coil a horn a spiral a monopole microstrip stripline or any other suitable antenna.

The components of the RFID system of may communicate with each other in any number of modes. One such mode is called full duplex. Another such mode is called half duplex and is described below.

RFID reader and RFID tag talk and listen to each other by taking turns. As seen on axis TIME when reader talks to tag the communication session is designated as R T and when tag talks to reader the communication session is designated as T R . Along the TIME axis a sample R T communication session occurs during a time interval and a following sample T R communication session occurs during a time interval . Of course interval is typically of a different duration than interval here the durations are shown approximately equal only for purposes of illustration.

According to blocks and RFID reader talks during interval and listens during interval . According to blocks and RFID tag listens while reader talks during interval and talks while reader listens during interval .

In terms of actual behavior during interval reader talks to tag as follows. According to block reader transmits signal which is a modulated RF signal as described in . At the same time according to block tag receives signal and processes it to extract data and so on. Meanwhile according to block tag does not backscatter with its antenna and according to block reader has no signal to receive from tag .

During interval tag talks to reader as follows. According to block reader transmits a Continuous Wave CW signal which can be thought of as a carrier RF signal that is typically not amplitude modulated or phase modulated and therefore encodes no information. This CW signal serves both to transfer energy to tag for its own internal power needs and also as a carrier that tag can modulate with its backscatter. Indeed during interval according to block tag does not receive a signal for processing. Instead according to block tag modulates the CW emitted according to block so as to generate backscatter signal . Concurrently according to block reader receives backscatter signal and processes it.

Circuit shows two IC contacts and suitable for coupling to antenna segments such as segments of RFID tag of . When two IC contacts form the signal input from and signal return to an antenna they are often referred to as an antenna port. IC contacts and may be made in any suitable way such as with metallic pads and so on. In some embodiments circuit uses more than two contacts especially when tag has more than one antenna port and or more than one antenna.

Circuit includes signal routing section which may include signal wiring signal routing busses receive transmit switches that can selectively route a signal and so on. In some embodiments circuit includes optional capacitors and or . If present capacitors capacitively couple IC contacts to signal routing section which in turn electrically couples to other components of circuit described below. This capacitive coupling causes IC contacts to be galvanically decoupled from signal routing section and other circuit components.

Capacitive coupling and resultant galvanic decoupling between IC contacts and or and components of circuit is desirable in certain situations. For example in some RFID tag embodiments IC contacts and may galvanically connect to terminals of a tuning loop on the tag. In this situation capacitors and or galvanically decouple IC contact from IC contact thereby preventing the formation of a short circuit between the IC contacts through the tuning loop.

Capacitors may be implemented within circuit and or at least partly external to circuit . For example a dielectric or insulating layer on the surface of the IC containing circuit may serve as the dielectric in capacitor and or capacitor . As another example a dielectric or insulating layer on the surface of a tag substrate e.g. inlay or strap substrate may serve as the dielectric in capacitors . Metallic or conductive layers positioned on both sides of the dielectric layer i.e. between the dielectric layer and the IC and between the dielectric layer and the tag substrate may then serve as terminals of the capacitors . The conductive layers may include IC contacts e.g. IC contacts antenna segments e.g. antenna segments or any other suitable conductive layers.

Circuit also includes a rectifier and PMU Power Management Unit that harvests energy from the RF signal received by the antenna to power the circuits of IC during either or both reader to tag R T and tag to reader T R sessions. Rectifier and PMU may be implemented in any way known in the art.

Circuit additionally includes a demodulator that demodulates the RF signal received via IC contacts . Demodulator may be implemented in any way known in the art for example including a slicer an amplifier and so on.

Circuit further includes a processing block that receives the output from demodulator and performs operations such as command decoding memory interfacing and so on. In addition processing block may generate an output signal for transmission. Processing block may be implemented in any way known in the art for example by combinations of one or more of a processor memory decoder encoder and so on.

Circuit additionally includes a modulator that modulates an output signal generated by processing block . The modulated signal is transmitted by driving IC contacts and therefore driving the load presented by the coupled antenna segment or segments. Modulator may be implemented in any way known in the art for example including a switch driver amplifier and so on.

In one embodiment demodulator and modulator may be combined in a single transceiver circuit. In another embodiment modulator may modulate a signal using backscatter. In another embodiment modulator may include an active transmitter. In yet other embodiments demodulator and modulator may be part of processing block .

Circuit additionally includes a memory to store data . At least a portion of memory is preferably implemented as a Nonvolatile Memory NVM which means that data is retained even when circuit does not have power as is frequently the case for a passive RFID tag.

In some embodiments particularly in those with more than one antenna port circuit may contain multiple demodulators rectifiers PMUs modulators processing blocks and or memories.

In terms of processing a signal circuit operates differently during a R T session and a T R session. The different operations are described below in this case with circuit representing an IC of an RFID tag.

Version A shows as relatively obscured those components that do not play a part in processing a signal during a R T session. Rectifier and PMU may be active such as for converting RF power. Modulator generally does not transmit during a R T session and typically does not interact with the received RF signal significantly either because switching action in section of decouples modulator from the RF signal or by designing modulator to have a suitable impedance and so on.

Although modulator is typically inactive during a R T session it need not be so. For example during a R T session modulator could be adjusting its own parameters for operation in a future session and so on.

Version B shows as relatively obscured those components that do not play a part in processing a signal during a T R session. Rectifier and PMU may be active such as for converting RF power. Demodulator generally does not receive during a T R session and typically does not interact with the transmitted RF signal significantly either because switching action in section of decouples demodulator from the RF signal or by designing demodulator to have a suitable impedance and so on.

Although demodulator is typically inactive during a T R session it need not be so. For example during a T R session demodulator could be adjusting its own parameters for operation in a future session and so on.

In typical embodiments demodulator and modulator are operable to demodulate and modulate signals according to a protocol. A protocol is a specification or industry standard such as the Gen2 Specification described above that calls for specific manners of signaling between the reader and the tags. A protocol specifies in part symbol encodings and may include a set of modulations rates timings or any other parameter associated with data communications.

In addition a protocol can be a variant of a stated specification such as the Gen2 Specification for example including fewer or additional commands than the stated specification calls for and so on. In such instances additional commands are sometimes called custom commands. In embodiments where circuit includes multiple demodulators and or modulators each may be configured to support different protocols or different sets of protocols.

Local block is responsible for communicating with tags. Local block includes a block of an antenna and a driver of the antenna for communicating with the tags. Some readers like that shown in local block contain a single antenna and driver. Some readers contain multiple antennas and drivers and a method to switch signals among them including sometimes using different antennas for transmitting and for receiving. And some readers contain multiple antennas and drivers that can operate simultaneously. A demodulator decoder block demodulates and decodes backscattered waves received from the tags via antenna block . Modulator encoder block encodes and modulates RF waves that are to be transmitted to the tags via antenna driver block .

Local block additionally includes an optional local processor . Local processor may be implemented in any number of ways known in the art. Such ways include by way of examples and not of limitation digital and or analog processors such as microprocessors and digital signal processors DSPs controllers such as microcontrollers software running in a machine such as a general purpose computer programmable circuits such as Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs Field Programmable Analog Arrays FPAAs Programmable Logic Devices PLDs Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASIC any combination of one or more of these and so on. In some cases some or all of the decoding function in block the encoding function in block or both may be performed instead by local processor . In some cases local processor may implement an encryption or authorization function in some cases one or more of these functions can be distributed among other blocks such as encoding block or may be entirely incorporated in another block.

Local block additionally includes an optional local memory . Local memory may be implemented in any number of ways known in the art including by way of example and not of limitation any of the memory types described above as well as any combination thereof. Local memory can be implemented separately from local processor or in an IC with local processor with or without other components. Local memory if provided can store programs for local processor to run if needed.

In some embodiments local memory stores data read from tags or data to be written to tags such as Electronic Product Codes EPCs Tag Identifiers TIDs keys hashes and other data. Local memory can also include reference data that is to be compared to the EPC instructions and or rules for how to encode commands for the tags modes for controlling antenna and so on. In some of these embodiments local memory is provided as a database.

Some components of local block typically treat the data as analog such as the antenna driver block . Other components such as local memory typically treat the data as digital. At some point there is a conversion between analog and digital. Based on where this conversion occurs a whole reader may be characterized as analog or digital but most readers contain a mix of analog and digital functionality.

If remote components are indeed provided they are coupled to local block via an electronic communications network . Network can be a Local Area Network LAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN a Wide Area Network WAN a network of networks such as the internet or a mere local communication link such as a USB PCI and so on. Local block may include a local network connection for communicating with network . Communications on the network can be secure such as if they are encrypted or physically protected or insecure if they are not encrypted or otherwise protected.

There can be one or more remote component s . If more than one they can be located at the same location or in different locations. They can access each other and local block via communications network or via other similar networks and so on. Accordingly remote component s can use respective remote network connections. Only one such remote network connection is shown which is similar to local network connection etc.

Remote component s can also include a remote processor . Remote processor can be made in any way known in the art such as was described with reference to local processor .

Remote component s can also include a remote memory . Remote memory can be made in any way known in the art such as was described with reference to local memory . Remote memory may include a local database and a different database of a Standards Organization such as one that can reference EPCs. Remote memory may also contain information associated with commands tag profiles keys or the like similar to local memory

Of the above described elements it is advantageous to consider a combination of these components designated as operational processing block . Operational processing block includes those components that are provided of the following local processor remote processor local network connection remote network connection and by extension an applicable portion of communications network that links remote network connection with local network connection . The portion can be dynamically changeable etc. In addition operational processing block can receive and decode RF waves received via antenna driver and cause antenna driver to transmit RF waves according to what it has processed.

Operational processing block includes either local processor or remote processor or both. If both are provided remote processor can be made such that it operates in a way complementary with that of local processor . In fact the two can cooperate. It will be appreciated that operational processing block as defined this way is in communication with both local memory and remote memory if both are present.

Accordingly operational processing block is location agnostic in that its functions can be implemented either by local processor by remote processor or by a combination of both. Some of these functions are preferably implemented by local processor and some by remote processor . Operational processing block accesses local memory or remote memory or both for storing and or retrieving data.

RFID reader system operates by operational processing block generating communications for RFID tags. These communications are ultimately transmitted by antenna driver block with modulator encoder block encoding and modulating the information on an RF wave. Then data is received from the tags via antenna driver block demodulated and decoded by demodulator decoder block and processed by operational processing block .

Embodiments of an RFID reader system can be implemented as hardware software firmware or any combination. It is advantageous to consider such a system as subdivided into components or modules. A person skilled in the art will recognize that some of these components or modules can be implemented as hardware some as software some as firmware and some as a combination. An example of such a subdivision is now described together with the RFID tag as an additional module.

RFID tag is considered here as a module by itself. RFID tag conducts a wireless communication with the remainder via the air interface . Air interface is really a boundary in that signals or data that pass through it are not intended to be transformed from one thing to another. Specifications as to how readers and tags are to communicate with each other for example the Gen2 Specification also properly characterize that interface as a boundary.

RFID system includes one or more reader antennas and an RF front end module for interfacing with reader antenna s . These can be made as described above.

RFID system also includes a signal processing module . In one embodiment signal processing module exchanges waveforms with RF front end module such as I and Q waveform pairs.

RFID system also includes a physical driver module which is also known as data link module. In some embodiments physical driver module exchanges bits with signal processing module . Physical driver module can be the stage associated with the framing of data.

RFID system additionally includes a media access control module which is also known as MAC layer module. In one embodiment MAC layer module exchanges packets of bits with physical driver module . MAC layer module can make decisions for sharing the medium of wireless communication which in this case is the air interface but in other embodiments could be a wired interface.

RFID system moreover includes an application programming library module which can include application programming interfaces APIs other objects etc.

All of these RFID system functionalities can be supported by one or more processors. One of these processors can be considered a host processor. Such a host processor might include a host operating system OS and or central processing unit CPU as in module . In some embodiments the processor is not considered as a separate module but one that includes some of the above mentioned modules of RFID system .

User interface module may be coupled to application programming library module for accessing the APIs. User interface module can be manual automatic or both. It can be supported by the host OS CPU module mentioned above or by a separate processor etc.

It will be observed that the modules of RFID system form a chain. Adjacent modules in the chain can be coupled by appropriate instrumentalities for exchanging signals. These instrumentalities include conductors buses interfaces and so on. These instrumentalities can be local e.g. to connect modules that are physically close to each other or over a network for remote communication.

The chain is used in one direction for receiving RFID waveforms and in the other for transmitting RFID waveforms. In receiving mode reader antenna s receives wireless waves which are in turn processed successively by the various modules in the chain. Processing can terminate in any one of the modules. In transmitting mode waveform initiation can be in any one of the modules. Ultimately signals are routed to reader antenna s to be transmitted as wireless waves.

The architecture of RFID system is presented for purposes of explanation and not of limitation. Its particular subdivision into modules need not be followed for creating embodiments. Furthermore the features of the present disclosure can be performed either within a single one of the modules or by a combination of them.

Everything described above in terms of readers and reader components finds some correspondence with tags and tag ICs and vice versa. Numerous details have been set forth in this description which is to be taken as a whole to provide a more thorough understanding of the invention. In other instances well known features have not been described in detail so as to not obscure unnecessarily the invention.

One or more RFID readers or distributed portions of one or more readers may be coupled to or embedded within an antenna array to form a synthesized beam reader SBR capable of generating multiple RF beams as described above. depicts a perspective view of an antenna array with discrete radiating elements according to embodiments. Antenna array includes an array of antenna elements and and a ground plane behind elements and . Each element has a radiating direction vector only shown for one element that is typically but not necessarily perpendicular to the ground plane. An RF radiation pattern or beam for receiving or transmitting an RF signal may be synthesized by adjusting the amplitude and or phase of the signals coupled from to each antenna element and . The direction of the synthesized beam typically represented by the direction of the beam s primary lobe the lobe having the highest radiated power is controlled by these various amplitude and or phase adjustments. The adjustments may be analog digital or a mix of analog and digital. For example during transmission an SBR may generate the signal to be transmitted and then direct the generated signal to elements and with different amplitudes and phases. Alternatively the SBR may synthesize the different signals for each antenna element digitally and then convert the digital signals to analog. In other embodiments the SBR may use a mix of these approaches. Similarly during a receive operation the SBR may combine analog signals after appropriate phase shifting and amplitude adjustment of each or it may digitize the signals from each element and combine them digitally or a mix thereof.

The antenna elements of SBA may be one or more of patch slot wire horn helical distributed or any other type as will be known to those skilled in the art. Whereas only shows nine antenna elements antenna arrays with any number of antenna elements may be used including a single distributed element or an element made from metamaterials. In some embodiments ground plane may be nonplanar e.g. curved concave convex etc. and in other embodiments need not exist.

Diagrams and depict coverage areas shown as shaded circles of the beam patterns generated by SBR . A beam generated by an SBR has a coverage volume also known as the beam s field of view FoV which is a volume in three dimensional space where during transmission the transmitted energy density exceeds a threshold and where during receiving the received energy density exceeds a threshold. A beam s coverage area is a projection of the beam s FoV on a surface. The FoV and coverage area may be different during transmit and receive and may vary with reader or tag power the thresholds the distance between the SBR and the surface and other parameters.

Diagram depicts the coverage area of central beam . Diagram depicts the coverage areas of the inner beams such as and . Diagram depicts the coverage areas of the outer beams such as and . Finally diagram depicts the total coverage area of all the beams formed by SBR . As shown in diagrams beam coverage areas may overlap. For example inner beam may overlap with the central beam with one or more other inner beams and with one or more other outer beams.

Whereas SBR is depicted as being able to generate and switch between five beams on an axis e.g. axis in other embodiments an SBR may generate and switch between more or fewer beams on any given axis. Similarly whereas SBR is depicted as being able to generate beams on four different axes e.g. axes and in in other embodiments an SBR may be configured to generate beams on more or fewer axes. An individual beam s coverage area in and subsequent figures is depicted as circular for simplicity and in actuality may be of any suitable shape and may vary based on interactions between the different elements that form the beam as well as the orientation and topology of the surface on which the coverage area is projected. For example a beam may have a non circular coverage area. As another example a circular beam that illuminates a surface with a non perpendicular angle may project an elliptical coverage area on the surface.

Diagrams and are similar to diagrams and with similarly numbered elements behaving similarly. Diagram is similar to diagram but with tag position converted from physical position to beam pointing angle. Tag shown with an X in diagram and is located where multiple beams overlap and can be powered by a beam when the beam s power contour lies above line for the tag s best case operating frequency. Line is not shown in diagram for reasons on clarity but tag operating profile shows the range of power levels at various frequencies for which the tag is able to operate. It is clear that some beams can power the tag at all frequencies some beams at some frequencies and some beams at no frequencies.

Consider diagrams and which depict beam interacting with tag . The entire tag operating profile lies within the contour of beam so the tag is able to operate regardless of beam s frequency. For beam the SBR can read tag at each frequency resulting in a 100 response rate with frequency depicted as 100 in diagram .

Turning now to beam notice that tag operating profile exceeds beam s power for a small subset of frequencies. As a result the SBR can read tag at a subset of frequencies resulting in a 92 response rate with frequency depicted as 92 in diagram .

Turning to beam notice that tag operating profile exceeds beam s power for a larger subset of frequencies. As a result the SBR can read tag over a smaller subset of frequencies resulting in a 60 response rate with frequency depicted as 60 in diagram .

Finally diagrams and depict how each of the five beams may interact with tag . As described above an SBR switching between beams and may have response rates of 100 92 and 60 when interacting with tag . For outer beams and whose contours barely overlap the tag range marker if at all the response rates are 2 2 and 0 0 . If the SBR measures the response rate of the five overlapping beams then it can determine the beam location of tag . In this specific example beam has a 100 response rate so tag lies somewhere within its coverage area. Beam has a larger response rate than beam so tag is closer to beam than to beam . In some embodiments the response rates can be combined for example using a weighted averaging or centroid averaging method to improve the estimate of tag location. The location of tag may be further refined by using the slopes of the beam sensitivity responses compared to the tag operating profile.

Whereas the tag location in was determined for reasons of brevity and clarity using beams lying along axis other beams along other axes may also be used. depicts how a tag s location may be determined using multiple beams in 2 dimensional space. Diagram depicts beam patterns similar to those in diagram of . For clarity each beam in diagram is represented by a small shaded circle that does not necessarily represent its coverage area. Tag similar to tag is represented by an X . Each beam has an associated tag response rate as described in represented by the bracketed number in the beam s circle. The response rate for a beam is related to the overlap between the beam s coverage and the location of tag . Beams that are closer to tag have higher response rates than beams that are farther from tag . The location of tag may be determined using the different response rates of the different beams.

Although show specific response rates these values are provided for illustration and may not correspond to actual response rates. Similarly the relationships between the response rates provided by adjacent beams shown in are for illustration and may differ from the actual response rates between adjacent beams.

Whereas a beam s coverage area is depicted as circular in the figures above in some embodiments a beam s coverage area may be shaped. As one example depicts beams with elliptical shapes formed by an SBR according to embodiments.

Diagram in is similar to and depicts beams synthesized by activating antenna elements along plane . As described in RF beams and similar to RF beams and respectively can be synthesized by supplying appropriately phase shifted signals to the antenna elements along plane . Because only 3 antenna elements are activated in a line the SBR of diagram is able to steer and shape a beam in the vertical direction in diagram but not in the horizontal direction. Of course activating additional elements can shift and shape the beam in other directions. Diagram shows elements activated along line to generate a beam of shape and elements activated along line to generate a beam of shape . Adjusting the phase of the signals provided to the antenna elements along lines and allows steering beams to different locations as shown in diagram for beams and respectively. As described above a tag at location in diagram may produce different response rates with frequency to an SBR steering a beam in these various directions allowing the SBR to determine the tag s location.

All steered beam systems generate side beams sidelobes in addition to the main beam. As will be known to those skilled in the an there exist techniques to suppress these sidelobes such as by adding more steering elements digital beam shaping shielding and other methods but none can suppress the sidelobes entirely. depicts steered beams with sidelobes formed by an SBR according to embodiments. Diagram similar to depicts a head on view to the left and a side view to the right of an SBR generating an RF beam having a sidelobe which may inventory a tag that is not positioned along the beam s main lobe. For example beam points upward but sidelobe pointing downward can erroneously inventory tag . Fortunately because sidelobes have lower power than main lobes an SBR can typically use a tag s response rate to discriminate a tag in a main beam which will have a high response rate from a tag in a sidelobe which will have a low response rate .

As described above a tag s sensitivity and response rate may vary with the frequency of the incident beam. In some embodiments a beam s sensitivity contour may also vary with frequency. depicts how frequency based variations in a beams delivered power can be used to determine tag location. Graph is similar to graphs and and shows a beam having sensitivity contour at one frequency and sensitivity contour at another frequency. Graph also depicts a tag operating profile similar to profile . By using beam profiles along with the tag response rates as a function of frequency an SBR may be able to better estimate the tag s location.

A beam s ability to inventory or access a tag is based on the absolute beam power beam power contour beam pointing direction beam frequency distance to the tag beam and tag polarization type of tag type of tag operation e.g. inventory versus writing and other parameters. A tag that lies within the SBR s tag inventory range has sufficient power to receive and respond to SBR commands whereas a tag that lies outside the SBR s tag inventory range does not have sufficient power to receive and respond to SBR commands.

Suppose that there was a way to deliver additional power to tag and thereby increase the size of its sensitivity contour . A sufficiently large increase would allow beam to inventory tag . Of course one way to increase the size of tag s sensitivity contour is to add a battery to tag . However it may be desirable to find a way to do so without artificial means such as a battery.

In some embodiments the two SBRs may use the same RF frequency during such cooperative powering particularly in cases where the SBRs send synchronized commands. In other embodiments particularly those in which one SBR provides commands and the other raw RF power the SBRs may use significantly different frequencies to avoid the RF frequencies generating beat notes that confuse the tag s demodulator such as demodulator in . Of course the SBRs may optimize their choice of frequency based on beam or tag polarization tag type the tag s ability to reject interference such as beat notes and other parameters. The SBR s may also adjust their relative or absolute delivered power to improve the cooperative powering. In some embodiments one of the SBRs need not be an SBR at all but could instead be a fixed i.e. not steered beam reader a handheld read a shelf reader a dock door reader or any other RFID reader as will be known to those skilled in the art. In some embodiments a controller and or one or both of the SBRs can adjust the power and or frequency of the generated RF signal s to increase the inventorying range of the RFID tag. In some embodiments the adjustment may include sweeping over a range of power and or frequency values in other embodiments the adjustment may be adaptive and based on environmental conditions for example RF noise or the dielectric properties of items to which tags are attached received tag replies tag performance characteristics for example sensitivity interference rejection or ability to harvest power from another RF source and or tag population size. In some embodiments one of the SBRs will point to the target location and another SBR may steer its beam to multiple locations in the vicinity of the target location to improve the cooperative powering.

Of course the benefits of cooperative tag powering need not be limited to a pair of SBRs. depicts how multiple SBRs can cooperate to inventory a tag population according to embodiments. Diagram depicts four SBRs and arranged to inventory a tag population . In diagram SBR is configured to communicate with tags using beam while SBRs are configured to provide power to tags using beams and respectively. In diagram SBR is instead configured to inventory tags using beam while SBRs provide additional power. Of course any of the SBRs can do the inventorying while the others deliver power or two can inventory synchronously or not while the other two deliver power or any other possibility. Of course the number of SBRs is arbitrary four are shown but more or less can be used in actual practice.

In some embodiments a controller such as controller in diagrams and can perform SBR coordination to cooperatively inventory and power tags using SBRs and . In other embodiments controller can be embedded within one or more of the SBRs. In yet other embodiments the SBRs can form a peer to peer communication network and synchronize with each other.

In general an SBR synthesizes an RF beam to point at locations e.g. beam areas of coverage shown in for durations and at times according to a scanning pattern which may be predetermined or dynamic. A pointing location can be identified by the one or more SBRs as a beam indicator such as a numeric indicator a location on the floor of a facility in which the SBRs are located a set of Cartesian or polar coordinates or any other suitable location identifier.

In some embodiments the scan pattern is a sequence of target locations and an SBR may synthesize beams to point at the different target locations based on a timer a trigger signal generated by the SBR or a controller and or communications from one or more other SBRs. In some embodiments the scan pattern is at least one target location and at least one corresponding target location time defined as the time at which two different SBRs point to the target location. The target location time may be absolute for example 4 00 pm or relative for example ten milliseconds after a trigger or timer signal or communication . An SBR may store the scan pattern in memory receive a scan pattern from a controller e.g. controller another SBR a network device or some other controlling entity generate a scan pattern using information received from a controller or other SBRs generate a scan pattern randomly generate a scan pattern to optimize tag cooperative powering or generate a scan pattern based on any other suitable parameter s . In some embodiments an SBR s scan pattern may be overridden temporarily or permanently by a controller or another SBR.

The assignment of roles inventorying or powering to different SBRs may depend on history i.e. whether an SBR was most recently an inventorying SBR or a powering SBR the SBR s location the number of tags the SBR has inventoried recently or historically the number of tags all or a subset of the SBRs have inventoried or any other number or type of suitable parameters. In some embodiments the SBR role assignments may be preset for example a particular SBR may be assigned to inventory for a period of time provide power for another period of time and then repeat. In other embodiments SBR role assignments may be dynamic or adaptive even during an ongoing communication with a tag. For example one reader may begin and then interrupt a dialog with a tag. Another reader may then continue the interrupted dialog with the tag while the original reader provides power or performs some other task.

In some embodiments SBRs may be configured to cooperatively power tags only in certain circumstances. For example if one SBR is using one of its outer beams to inventory tags then other SBR may cooperatively power the tags knowing that cooperative powering is particularly effective when used with outer SBR beams. As another example if a tag is moving toward the periphery of an SBR s field of view and therefore into its outer beam coverage other SBR may cooperate to provide additional power. As yet another example if the number of inventoried tags is less than an expected number other SBRs may provide additional power to boost tag sensitivity and thereby allow more tags to be inventoried. As yet another example if a tag indicates that it has insufficient power to perform an operation such as writing data to memory other SBRs may provide additional power so the tag can perform the operation.

As described above SBRs may be configured to receive and or exchange information about target locations scan patterns scan timing beam configuration tags cooperative powering and roles. depicts a variety of ways in which SBRs can receive and or exchange such information. Diagram depicts a first configuration in which a master SBR coordinates the operations of two slave SBRs and . Diagram depicts a second configuration in which three SBRs and coordinate operation via peer to peer communications. Diagram depicts a third configuration in which a centralized controller coordinates the operations of three SBRs and . Of course multiple variants on these themes are possible including using more or less SBRs mixing the configuration for example a controller coordinating peer to peer communications using multiple controllers and endless other combinations as will be obvious to those of ordinary skill in the art. Communication between SBRs and controllers if present can be implemented using a wired connection e.g. Ethernet parallel serial or other suitable wired protocol a wireless connection e.g. WiFi cellular. Bluetooth or other suitable wireless protocol a point to point protocol a packet or address based protocol or any other suitable connection type or protocol.

The SBR functionality described above may be combined with tag population management techniques to improve inventory performance and detect tag movement. One such tag population management technique is a tag refresh also described in copending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 271 937 entitled Broadcast Refresh of RFID Tag Persistence which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Many RFID systems expect a reader such as an SBR to inventory all the tags in a population. Typically the reader inventories a first tag instructs the tag not to reply for a period of time a persistence time and then proceeds to inventory a second tag. In typical embodiments the reader instructs the first tag either explicitly or implicitly to set a flag an inventoried flag which is usually a semi persistent bit value stored on the tag from a default or unset value to a set value thereby indicating that the tag has been inventoried. After some time the flag persistence time the flag typically decays back to the default value. In an ideal world the reader would continue the process until it has inventoried all of the tags. Unfortunately if the reader has not finished inventorying all of the tags within the persistence time then the first tag will forget that it has already been inventoried i.e. its inventoried flag will decay to its default value and present itself to be inventoried again. Subsequently a second tag may exhibit the same behavior followed by other tags. If the tag population is large then the reader may spend so much time re inventorying already inventoried tags that it cannot spend enough time searching for the hard to inventory tags. As a result some of the tags in the population may not be inventoried at all.

After inventory operation switches the flag value from A to B the flag physical parameter will begin decaying as indicated by curve . At some point in time the flag physical parameter will have decayed below threshold switching the flag value from B back to A. The difference between time and time is the flag s persistence time and is how long the flag holds the value B. The rate at which the physical parameter decays may be a function of one or more tag and or environmental conditions such as tag design or temperature.

If a tag is capable of executing a flag refresh and a reader transmits a refresh command to the tag before time i.e. before the physical parameter decays below threshold then the refresh command adjusts or instructs the tag to adjust the physical parameter to increase the flag persistence time. As above the amount of the adjustment may be static or dynamic as long as the post refresh value is different from the value before the refresh command. By transmitting successive refresh commands e.g. refresh command followed by refresh command the resulting decay curve can be adjusted such that the effective flag persistence time i.e. the time before which curve drops below the threshold can be extended as far beyond the normal flag persistence time as desired. A reader may transmit the refresh command to individual tags or may broadcast the refresh command to multiple tags simultaneously. The term broadcast as used herein implies that the command is directed to multiple tags rather than to a singulated tag.

The refresh functionality described above need not be used only while actively inventorying tags. For example a reader may broadcast refresh signals to already inventoried tags while waiting for other tags to enter its field of view. The refresh functionality may also be used to assist in managing different populations of tags. For example a reader may inventory a first population of tags in a first session and use broadcast refresh signals to maintain the values of the tag flags associated with the first session. The reader may then inventory a second population of tags in a second session different from the first while continuing to broadcast refresh signals to maintain the flag values of tags in the first population. The sessions concept is described in the UHF Gen2 Specification.

As suggested above this refresh functionality may assist in determining the direction of a tag s movement in an environment that contains multiple other tags. is a conceptual diagram showing side views of an SBR system at different stages of a tag motion tracking process according to embodiments.

In diagram an SBR is configured to generate outer RF beams and and a central RF beam . SBR typically scans among its different beams and also between other beams not depicted in continuously to look for tags within its coverage area e.g. as depicted in diagram .

At stage of the tag motion tracking process SBR first inventories stationary tags S1 S4 in container and stationary tags S5 S6 in container in a first session. SBR then broadcasts a refresh signal to the stationary tags to keep them quiet in the first session. In some embodiments these stationary tags may also be inventoried in a second session. In some embodiments the inventoried flags in the second session do not decay while the tags receive power.

At subsequent stage a container with tags of interest TOIs and moves rightward into SBR s coverage area. As they enter the coverage area SBR inventories these TOIs with outer RF beams and using the second session for the inventorying. Upon observing these new previously unseen TOIs SBR begins a tracking process that includes using an alternative session that is different from the second session such as the first session although any session other than the second may be used .

An inventorying process such as described in the UHF Gen2 Specification involves a series of steps involving the exchange of information between a reader such as SBR and a tag. The process causes state changes in the reader and or tag for example the reader may request an identifier from the tag the tag may reply with its identifier the reader may acknowledge receipt of the identifier and the tag may then assert an inventoried flag in response to the acknowledgement. In some embodiments a reader may wish to inventory a tag without causing the tag to assert its inventoried flag. The reader may accomplish non acknowledgment by beginning the inventorying process as described above but either not acknowledge receipt of the tag provided identifier or transmitting a non acknowledgement command to the tag. The NAK command in the UHF Gen2 Specification is one such non acknowledgment command.

At stage SBR inventories tags with central beam using the alternative session. Because TOIs have not yet been inventoried in the alternative session their inventoried flags should be in the A state i.e. denoting not inventoried and they should respond to SBR . When SBR receives an identifier from one of these TOIs which it previously determined to be new and of interest SBR transmits a non acknowledgement command to the TOI thereby causing the TOI not to change the state of its inventoried tag and thus facilitating subsequent reinventorying. Moreover because SBR previously inventoried the TOI with its outer RF beams and is now inventorying the TOI with its central RF beam it may infer that the TOI has moved from the coverage area of outer RF beams to the coverage area of central RF beam .

As mentioned above an RFID reader such as SBR may unintentionally miss i.e. not inventory a tag such as one of TOIs in one of its beams. To compensate for such misses SBR may associate TOIs that it believes to be traveling together such as TOIs in a set. SBR may form this belief from the fact that it inventoried TOIs at the same time from tracking TOIs moving together for a period of time from information provided to it about TOIs from similar TOI identifiers or from other information or sources or characteristic of the TOIs. By assuming the association among the TOIs even if SBR misses one of the TOIs in a beam such as in beam it may still assume that the missed TOI is moving with the others in the set.

At stage SBR inventories TOIs with outer RF beam . Similar to stage SBR may inventory the TOIs in the alternative session and after receiving a TOI identifier and determining that the TOI was previously inventoried may transmit a non acknowledgement command to the TOI.

In the example of by first inventorying the tag in the second session with all static tags already in the B state SBR can quickly identify new TOIs. By using non acknowledgment commands in the alternative session SBR can continue to observe the TOIs in a sea of static tags. By tracking a TOI across beams and SBR and may infer that a TOI is moving.

Whereas the example in depicts tracking TOIs moving linearly in one direction rightward SBR may be configured to track TOIs moving in other directions in linear or nonlinear paths. For example SBR can be configured to track TOIs that enter its coverage area along one axis and leave along another i.e. TOIs that change movement direction within the SBR coverage area . Similarly SBR can be configured to track TOIs that move in a curved path.

In some embodiments an SBR may use tag refresh commands as described above to assist in tag tracking. For example SBR may use refresh commands to maintain the inventoried flags of the static tags in containers and . shows a timing diagram for a tag tracking process with tag refresh commands according to embodiments. Timing diagram displays the values of the session one S1 and two S2 flags a TOI and two static tags and . In timing diagram a flag is asserted when its value is high and not asserted when its value is low. The horizontal axis of the timing diagram represents time with events to the left preceding events to the right.

At initial time an SBR inventories static tags and in both S1 and S2 sessions and instructs them to assert their S1 and S2 flags. Whereas timing diagram depicts these tags being inventoried in both sessions at the same time in typical embodiments the tags are first inventoried in one session and then in the other session.

At subsequent time the SBR transmits a refresh command to static tags and as described above. Without the refresh command at time the S1 flags of static tags would decay as depicted by the dotted curves shortly after time . In the depicted embodiment the S2 flags of the static tags do not decay because a tag s S2 flag value persists when the tag is powered as described in the Gen2 Specification .

At time the SBR inventories TOI in session S2 and causes its S2 session flag to be asserted as a result of being inventoried.

At time the SBR transmits another refresh command to static tags to maintain their S1 flag values which would otherwise decay.

At time the SBR inventories TOI in session S1. After receiving an identifier from TOI the SBR transmits a non acknowledgement command such as a Gen2 NAK command causing TOI s S1 session flag to remain deasserted.

At times and the SBR transmits refresh commands to maintain the S1 session flag values of static tags and . At time the SBR again inventories TOI in session S1 and terminates the inventorying process by transmitting a NAK command leaving TOI s S1 session flag of deasserted.

By first using session S2 to find TOI among static tags whose S2 session flags are held asserted by being powered and then using session S1 and NAKs to read TOT multiple times among static tags whose S1 session flags are refreshed the SBR is able to inventory TOI in multiple beams as described above and track its movement. Of course the above session flag choices are arbitrary session flags S1 and S2 could be swapped or session flag S3 could be used instead of session flag S1 or session flag S3 could be used instead of session flag S2 or the tags could have customer session flags with different names and attributes.

In step the SBR determines whether to inventory tags or transmit a flag refresh command. The SBR may determine whether to transmit a refresh command based on whether it has recently inventoried any TOIs the time since the last refresh command the number of static tags or any other suitable condition or combination of conditions.

If the SBR chooses to send a refresh command then it transmits a refresh command in step as described above in relation to step in . If the SBR chooses to inventory tags then it may receive an identifier from a static tag or a TO. The SBR may determine whether a tag is static or a TOI based on any of the above described criteria such as whether the SBR has observed the tag previously whether the tag is moving whether the tag has an identifier of interest etc. The SBR may use multiple of its RF beams to inventory tags and may use one or more sessions. Unless the SBR observes a TOI it returns to step .

If the SBR finds a potential TOI then in step it determines if the TOI was previously observed. If confirmed then the SBR may evaluate a TO parameter e.g. whether the TOI is moving which direction it came from is going speed path etc. in step . If the TOI is not confirmed then the SBR returns to step without evaluating a TOI parameter. Subsequently the reader returns to step .

In some embodiments the SBR prioritizes the order in which it performs the tasks in step either in a fixed sequence or dynamically based on information received from tags or from external sources.

Whereas the above tag tracking process uses session S1 which decays over time in other embodiments the process may use a different session that does not decay while the tag is energized such as S3. In these embodiments refresh step may be omitted.

The steps described in processes and are for illustration purposes only. RFID tag management using SBRs may be performed employing additional or fewer steps and in different orders using the principles described herein. Of course the order of the steps may be modified some steps eliminated or other steps added according to other embodiments.

Whereas in the above description the RF beams for transmitting and receiving are synthesized by an SBR in some embodiments one or more of the beams in either or both of the transmit and receive functionalities may be generated without the use of a synthesized beam antenna. For example the transmit beams may be generated by a synthesized beam antenna but the receive beam may employ a static antenna such a a patch monopole dipole etc. As another example the synthesized beams may be replaced by multiple static antennas coupled to one or more readers.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams and or examples contain one or more functions and or aspects it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or aspect within such block diagrams or examples may be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. Those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part may be equivalently implemented employing integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure.

The present disclosure is not to be limited in terms of the particular embodiments described in this application which are intended as illustrations of various aspects. Many modifications and variations can be made without departing from its spirit and scope as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Functionally equivalent methods and apparatuses within the scope of the disclosure in addition to those enumerated herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing descriptions. Such modifications and variations are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. The present disclosure is to be limited only by the terms of the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is to be understood that this disclosure is not limited to particular methods configurations antennas transmission lines and the like which can of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to embodiments containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers means at least two recitations or two or more recitations .

Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

As will be understood by one skilled in the art for any and all purposes such as in terms of providing a written description all ranges disclosed herein also encompass any and all possible subranges and combinations of subranges thereof. Any listed range can be easily recognized as sufficiently describing and enabling the same range being broken down into at least equal halves thirds quarters fifths tenths etc. As a non limiting example each range discussed herein can be readily broken down into a lower third middle third and upper third etc. As will also be understood by one skilled in the art all language such as up to at least greater than less than and the like include the number recited and refer to ranges which can be subsequently broken down into subranges as discussed above. Finally as will be understood by one skilled in the art a range includes each individual member. Thus for example a group having 1 3 cells refers to groups having 1 2 or 3 cells. Similarly a group having 1 5 cells refers to groups having 1 2 3 4 or 5 cells and so forth.

