---

title: Reading station structures
abstract: In some examples, a reader system is provided for managing inventory items in an inventory system. The reader system may be configured to read tags associated with items stowed in an inventory holder. The inventory holder may be detachably coupled to a mobile drive unit. The mobile drive unit may move the inventory holder to a first position near an antenna of the reader system and the tags may begin to be read. While reading or at other times in the reading process, the mobile drive unit may move the inventory holder relative to the antenna. The identified tags may be compared to a manifest list of items expected to be stowed in the inventory holder.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09613338&OS=09613338&RS=09613338
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09613338
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160613
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 558 603 filed on Dec. 2 2014 and entitled READING STATION STRUCTURES which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Modern inventory systems such as those in mail order warehouses supply chain distribution centers airport luggage systems and custom order manufacturing facilities face significant challenges in responding to requests for inventory items. As inventory systems grow the challenges of simultaneously completing a large number of packing storing and other inventory related tasks become non trivial. In inventory systems tasked with responding to large numbers of diverse inventory requests inefficient utilization of system resources including space equipment and manpower can result in lower throughput unacceptably long response times an ever increasing backlog of unfinished tasks and in general poor system performance. Additionally as modern inventory systems continue to increase in size and complexity the likelihood that some inventory items will become lost within the inventory systems increases. These items may be lost as they are transferred into the inventory systems as they move throughout the inventory systems or as they move out of the inventory systems. Lost inventory items may impact operating budgets associated with these inventory systems and may also affect efficiency.

In the following description various embodiments will be described. For purposes of explanation specific configurations and details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will also be apparent to one skilled in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without the specific details. Furthermore well known features may be omitted or simplified in order not to obscure the embodiment being described.

Embodiments herein are directed to an inventory system having multiple inventory holders and drive units for moving the inventory holders. Specifically features herein are directed to managing inventory items of an inventory system using radio frequency identification RFID tags. To this end RFID tags may be attached to individual inventory items as they move throughout the inventory systems. An individual RFID tag may uniquely identify an individual inventory item because a number associated with the RFID tag may be entirely unique. To read the RFID tags and identify the corresponding inventory items a reader system may be provided. In some examples the reader system includes one or more antennas attached to a reading structure. The reading structure may take a variety of shapes. The reader system may be configured to communicate with the RFID tags via the one or more antennas. Such communication may include determining the unique numbers associated with the RFID tags.

In some examples inventory items including their corresponding RFID tags may move throughout an inventory system within different compartments of the inventory holders. The inventory holders may be coupled to mobile drive units which can move the inventory holders between different locations of a workspace where inventory items are stored and processed. In some examples the mobile drive units may be autonomous. In accordance with techniques described herein the inventory items stowed within inventory holders may be identified by reading the RFID tags attached to the inventory items. The likelihood of reading all of the items within an inventory holder may increase when the RFID tags are exposed to the one or more antennas at different angles. This may be because many inventory items including corresponding RFID tags are packed together tightly within a particular inventory holder. Accordingly techniques described herein may include moving the inventory holder in a manner that exposes the RFID tags to the one or more antennas at different angles.

In one example as items enter a warehouse they are each tagged with an RFID tag and recorded in a manifest. The pairing of RFID tags to items is typically one to one. These items are then loaded into an inventory holder. As each item is loaded the manifest is updated that associates the items by their RFID tags with the inventory holder identified by an inventory holder RFID tag . The manifest identifies which items are expected to be within the inventory holder and is managed by an inventory management system. Next a mobile drive unit moves the inventory holder loaded with the items from location to location within the warehouse. Occasionally the mobile drive unit will be instructed to take the inventory holder to a reading station. The reading station is a location within the warehouse where the items within the inventory holder can be counted identified and compared to the manifest. As the inventory holder enters the reading station by the mobile drive unit the inventory holder is identified by a reader system including one or more antennas fixed in the direction of the inventory holder reading the inventory holder RFID tag. Next the reading station begins to read the RFID tags to identify the items associated with the RFID tags. As the reading station is reading the RFID tags the mobile drive unit is instructed to move the inventory holder to expose the different sides of the inventory holder to the antennas. This may involve the mobile drive unit rotating the inventory holder or moving it in a fixed or arbitrary pattern. Such movement and or rotation manipulates the locations and or orientations of the items relative to the antennas and increases the probability that all items will be identified. The reader system continues to read the RFID tags until some threshold is reached e.g. a period of time e.g. 45 seconds a percentage of the total RFID tags are read e.g. 95 and other similar thresholds or until the mobile drive unit is instructed to otherwise leave the reading station. Once some of the items are identified e.g. after their RFID tags have been read these items can be compared to the items from the manifest. Because the manifest indicates which items are expected to be in the inventory holder this comparison reveals whether the threshold relating to percentage of identified items has been reached indicates lost or unread items and also serves as an inventory check. Once reading is complete the mobile drive unit is instructed to move the inventory holder out of the reading station.

In another example a reading station is provided as part of an inventory system. At the reading station is located a reading structure for reading RFID tags associated with items in an inventory holder. While a variety of different reading structures are described herein a particular reading structure includes two upright poles. On each pole an antenna to read the RFID tags is attached. The poles are placed wide enough apart that a mobile drive unit carrying an inventory holder can pass between the two poles. The two antennas face each other on the two opposing poles. In this manner the two antennas can transmit radio frequency signals toward the same location i.e. the middle area between the two poles but from different directions. As the mobile drive unit moves the inventory holder within the range of the antennas the antennas begin to read the RFID tags. The data collected from reading the RFID tags may be processed by a reader system managing the two antennas provided to an inventory management system or otherwise processed transmitted and or stored. At some time during the reading the mobile drive unit is instructed to move the inventory holder to expose the different sides of the inventory holder to the antennas. This may involve the mobile drive unit rotating the inventory holder between the two poles or moving it in a fixed or arbitrary pattern. Such movement and or rotation manipulates the locations of the items and increases the probability that all items will be identified.

Generally RFID refers to a wireless non contacting system for transferring data by way of radio frequency electromagnetic fields. In an RFID system data transfers occur in the form of modulated signals transmitted between an RFID tag or an RFID device which may include various communication components logic or circuitry and an RFID reader which may include antennas or other like devices. Data stored within a microchip or other storage device associated with the RFID tag may be sent to the RFID reader which may interpret not only the data received in the RFID signal but also other relevant information or attributes of the RFID signal such as an intensity or a frequency of the RFID signal as well as a direction from which the RFID signal originated a range traveled by the RFID signal or at least some of the information or data included in the RFID signal. The transfer of the RFID signal is initiated when an electric field or a magnetic field transmitted by an RFID reader is sensed by an RFID tag which transmits information or data that may be stored in association with the RFID tag in one or more microchips or other storage devices.

RFID systems provide a number of advantages over similar systems for the short range transfer of information or data. First an RFID tag may be formed of components having remarkably small compact shapes and sizes and tags that are as thin as a sheet of paper or smaller than a grain of rice are quite common. Additionally unlike a bar code e.g. a one dimensional bar code or a two dimensional QR code an RFID tag need not be provided within a line of sight of an RFID reader in order to successfully transmit data. Therefore RFID tags may be concealed or embedded into many different types of objects of any size or shape as well as humans or other animals. Next an RFID tag may be programmed with a fixed set or packet of read only data which may be transmitted to an RFID reader countless number of times in theory or reprogrammed with modifiable sets of data that may be written and rewritten as needed based on the application in which the RFID tag is provided. Moreover and perhaps most importantly while an active RFID tag includes and utilizes a local power source such as a battery a passive RFID tag does not require any power in order to successfully transmit a set or packet of data to an RFID reader and may therefore transmit such data when power supplies are unavailable or in environments where providing power to the RFID tag is infeasible.

RFID signals may be transmitted from an RFID tag to an RFID reader in many different formats and at many different frequency levels. An RFID tag that transmits signals within low frequency LF medium frequency MF or high frequency HF levels e.g. approximately 3 kilohertz to 30 megahertz or 3 kHz 30 MHz may transfer relatively small sized sets or packets of data over short ranges e.g. between ten and one hundred centimeters or 10 100 cm . Other RFID tags may transmit signals at higher frequency levels such as ultrahigh frequency UHF or microwave levels e.g. approximately 300 megahertz to 300 gigahertz or 300 MHz 300 GHz including larger sets or packets of data at ranges of one meter 1 m or longer.

A signal transmission from an RFID tag to an RFID reader may be achieved in any number of ways. An inductively coupled RFID tag is an RFID tag that is powered by energy obtained from magnetic fields generated by an RFID reader and may be coupled to the RFID reader using this energy. In this regard an RFID reader may include one or more coils through which an electric current may pass thereby causing a magnetic field to be generated by the RFID reader according to Ampere s Law. Likewise an inductively coupled RFID tag may also include one or more coils. When the RFID tag passes within a particular range of the RFID reader an electric current is generated within the coils of the RFID tag thereby coupling the RFID reader and the RFID tag based on the magnetic flux passing through the respective sets of coils. The electric current passing through the coils of the RFID tag may then power internal circuits within the RFID tag and cause an RFID signal to be transmitted from the RFID tag to the RFID reader accordingly. Thus inductively coupled RFID tags are commonly used in powerless environments where a passive system for transmitting signals may be required.

Additionally an RFID tag may be coupled by any number of other modes. For example capacitively coupled RFID tags include coupling plates that are designed to correspond to a plate of an RFID reader. When the RFID tag is placed in sufficiently close proximity to the RFID reader thereby causing the corresponding coupling plates of the RFID tag and the RFID reader to be aligned in parallel with one another and within a short range a transfer of data from the RFID tag to the RFID reader is achieved. Unlike an inductively coupled RFID tag which is powered by a magnetic field generated by an RFID reader a capacitively coupled RFID tag is powered by an alternating electric field generated by an RFID reader. For this reason capacitively coupled RFID tags usually have more limited operating ranges than inductively coupled RFID tags and are typically employed in near field communication environments. Similarly a backscatter coupled RFID tag receives power emitted from an RFID reader s antenna. A portion of the emissions from the RFID reader are received by a corresponding antenna of the RFID tag and may be filtered or rectified as necessary in order to trigger a transfer of data from the RFID tag to the RFID reader. Any type or mode of coupling between an active semi active e.g. powered on a temporary basis or for limited purposes or passive RFID tag and an RFID reader may be utilized in accordance with the present description.

In addition to RFID tags which are automatically coupled with an RFID reader the systems and methods of the present description may further include an RFID tag such as a passive RFID tag which may be manually activated e.g. coupled upon a manual action by a human or machine in order to cause a transmission of a data signal from the RFID tag to one or more RFID readers. A manually activated RFID tag may include physical or virtual switches that may close a circuit within the RFID tag and thereby permit the RFID tag to function as a data transmitter in the presence of an electric or magnetic field. For example a manually activated RFID tag may include capacitive elements that define a capacitor within the RFID tag and may effectively close a circuit within the RFID tag when such elements detect bioelectricity from a user. The term bioelectricity generally refers to electrical charges or electric field gradients that may be stored within a living body such as a human body which contains blood and other matter having a variety of positively and negatively charged ions e.g. sodium chloride and others . Bioelectricity within a body may cause a change in capacitance of such elements in a vicinity of a location touched by the body e.g. a digit such as a finger or thumb due to disruptions in electrical fields caused by the body s presence thereby further causing a change in the time constant of the RFID tag and a discharge of the capacitor in an amount that may be defined as a function of the resistance of the capacitive elements.

According to some embodiments such capacitive elements may be formed into a layered stack or may include a substantially linear or planar gap or break and may be covered with a flexible protective layer formed from one or more plastics or rubbers e.g. acrylics vinyls polyurethanes or the like or other like materials. The protective layer may be adhered to one or more capacitive elements of an RFID circuit which may include elements formed from a conductive material such as aluminum copper silicon or indium tin oxide that are separated by an air gap. When a user touches a protective layer of an RFID tag with a finger which is a bioelectric conductor a change in the effective capacitance on the order of approximately one picofarad between the elements which are also conductors in a vicinity of a point or points of contact with the protective layer is introduced. Such contact forms a conductive bridge across the elements thereby causing disruptions in electrical fields in the vicinity of one or more of the elements and further causing an internal current flow through the RFID tag circuit.

In addition to capacitive elements a circuit of an RFID tag may include other components for enabling a manual actuation thereof by a human or a machine including one or more substantially planar conductive elements that may be separated by an air gap. Such an air gap between the conductive elements defines an open switch within the circuit of the RFID tag which may also be covered with a flexible protective layer that may be formed from one or more plastics rubbers or other like materials. When a user contacts an external surface of the RFID tag corresponding to the air gap e.g. the flexible protective layer over the air gap at least two of the conductive elements are placed in contact with one another thereby bridging the air gap between the conductive elements and closing the open switch. Subsequently an internal current flow through the RFID tag circuit is enabled. Because the bridging of the air gap and the closure of the open switch is registered by manually driven electrical contact a manually activated RFID tag including substantially planar conductive elements does not require bioelectricity in order to operate properly and a user may interact with the RFID tag using not only his or her fingers or hands which may be gloved or ungloved but also a stylus a pointer or another like object.

Turning now to the figures illustrates an example block diagram depicting techniques relating to managing inventory items using RFID tags as described herein. The block diagram may include an inventory holder . As detailed herein the inventory holder may include a plurality of compartments in which inventory items such as inventory items N may be stowed. The inventory holder may also include an inventory holder RFID tag for its own identification. The inventory holder may be cable of being coupled to a mobile drive unit not shown to move the inventory holder within a workspace.

The block diagram may also include a reader system that is configured to transmit radio frequency RF energy in the form of RF signals e.g. an interrogator signal and receive RF energy in the form of RF signals e.g. authentication replies . The reader system may transmit the interrogator signal in the direction of the inventory holder via an antenna not shown . The interrogator signal may energize RFID tags N attached to the inventory items N stowed within the inventory holder . The RFID tags N may be any suitable RFID tag capable of transmitting stored data e.g. a unique tag ID number and may therefore include an integrated circuit and an antenna.

The unique tag ID may be an electronic product code including a suitable number of bits of data e.g. 96 bits that may be used to identify the particular inventory item associated with the RFID tag and may also be used to identify other objects organizations and the like. In some examples the RFID tags N may be passive tags active tags or any combination of passive and active e.g. semi active .

Once the RFID tag is energized it may begin to transmit its own RF energy e.g. an authentication reply . As the reader system is configured to receive RF energy it may receive the authentication reply from the RFID tag . The process of the reader system sending an interrogation signal and receiving authentication replies from tags may be characterized as reading tags. Thus by reading the RFID tag the reader system may have sufficient information to identify the inventory item and in particular to identify that the inventory item is stowed within the inventory holder . Once the inventory item is identified an indication that it has been identified may be added to an inventory list which may then be compared to a manifest list . The manifest list may include a list of items expected to be stowed in the inventory holder and other inventory holders within the workspace.

In some examples reading the RFID tag N may prove difficult. This may be because the inventory item N to which the RFID tag N is attached may be stacked in the inventory holder below other inventory items. Other reasons for difficulty may include the inventory item N may have been placed near the middle of the inventory holder or the RFID tag N may have been attached to the inventory item N in a manner that makes reading the RFID tag N difficult. In accordance with reading techniques described herein the position of the inventory holder may be moved by the mobile drive unit relative to the antenna of the reader system . This may include rotating the inventory holder to expose different sides of the inventory holder and therefore different sides of the inventory item N to the antenna and many other movements described herein. Such movement may enable the reader system to read the RFID tag N and identify the inventory item N . Similar to the above once the inventory item N is identified an indication that it has been identified may be added to the inventory list . In some examples the inventory list may be populated with items shortly after a particular RFID tag is read periodically while tags are being read e.g. every five seconds after tags have been read for some fixed period of time e.g. one minute and or according to other suitable conventions.

Management module assigns tasks to appropriate components of inventory system and coordinates operation of the various components in completing the tasks. These tasks may relate not only to the movement and processing of inventory items but also to the management and maintenance of the components of inventory system . For example management module may assign portions of workspace as parking spaces for mobile drive units the scheduled recharge or replacement of mobile drive unit batteries the storage of empty inventory holders or any other operations associated with the functionality supported by inventory system and its various components. Management module may select components of inventory system to perform these tasks and communicate appropriate commands and or data to the selected components to facilitate completion of these operations. Although shown in as a single discrete component management module may represent multiple components and may represent or include portions of mobile drive units or other elements of inventory system . As a result any or all of the interaction between a particular mobile drive unit and management module that is described below may in particular embodiments represent peer to peer communication between that mobile drive unit and one or more other mobile drive units . The contents and operation of an example embodiment of management module are discussed further below with respect to .

Mobile drive units move inventory holders between locations within workspace . Mobile drive units may represent any devices or components appropriate for use in inventory system based on the characteristics and configuration of inventory holders and or other elements of inventory system . In a particular embodiment of inventory system mobile drive units represent independent self powered devices configured to freely move about workspace . Examples of such inventory systems are disclosed in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2012 0143427 published on Jun. 7 2012 titled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR POSITIONING A MOBILE DRIVE UNIT and U.S. Pat. No. 8 280 547 issued on Oct. 2 2012 titled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR TRANSPORTING INVENTORY ITEMS the entire disclosures of which are herein incorporated by reference. In alternative embodiments mobile drive units represent elements of a tracked inventory system configured to move inventory holder along tracks rails cables crane system or other guidance or support elements traversing workspace . In such an embodiment mobile drive units may receive power and or support through a connection to the guidance elements such as a powered rail. Additionally in particular embodiments of inventory system mobile drive units may be configured to utilize alternative conveyance equipment to move within workspace and or between separate portions of workspace . The contents and operation of an example embodiment of a mobile drive unit are discussed further below with respect to .

Additionally mobile drive units may be capable of communicating with management module to receive information identifying selected inventory holders transmit the locations of mobile drive units or exchange any other suitable information to be used by management module or mobile drive units during operation. Mobile drive units may communicate with management module wirelessly using wired connections between mobile drive units and management module and or in any other appropriate manner. As one example particular embodiments of mobile drive unit may communicate with management module and or with one another using 802.11 Bluetooth or Infrared Data Association IrDA standards or any other appropriate wireless communication protocol. As another example in a tracked inventory system tracks or other guidance elements upon which mobile drive units move may be wired to facilitate communication between mobile drive units and other components of inventory system . Furthermore as noted above management module may include components of individual mobile drive units . Thus for the purposes of this description and the claims that follow communication between management module and a particular mobile drive unit may represent communication between components of a particular mobile drive unit . In general mobile drive units may be powered propelled and controlled in any manner appropriate based on the configuration and characteristics of inventory system .

Inventory holders store inventory items. In a particular embodiment inventory holders include multiple storage bins with each storage bin capable of holding one or more types of inventory items. Inventory holders are capable of being carried rolled and or otherwise moved by mobile drive units . In particular embodiments inventory holder may provide additional propulsion to supplement that provided by mobile drive unit when moving inventory holder .

Additionally in particular embodiments inventory items may also hang from hooks or bars not shown within or on inventory holder . In general inventory holder may store inventory items in any appropriate manner within inventory holder and or on the external surface of inventory holder .

Additionally each inventory holder may include a plurality of faces and each bin may be accessible through one or more faces of the inventory holder . For example in a particular embodiment inventory holder includes four faces. In such an embodiment bins located at a corner of two faces may be accessible through either of those two faces while each of the other bins is accessible through an opening in one of the four faces. Mobile drive unit may be configured to rotate inventory holder at appropriate times to present a particular face and the bins associated with that face to an operator or other components of inventory system .

Inventory items represent any objects suitable for storage retrieval and or processing in an automated inventory system . For the purposes of this description inventory items may represent any one or more objects of a particular type that are stored in inventory system . Thus a particular inventory holder is currently storing a particular inventory item if the inventory holder currently holds one or more units of that type. As one example inventory system may represent a mail order warehouse facility and inventory items may represent merchandise stored in the warehouse facility. During operation mobile drive units may retrieve inventory holders containing one or more inventory items requested in an order to be packed for delivery to a customer or inventory holders carrying pallets containing aggregated collections of inventory items for shipment. Moreover in particular embodiments of inventory system boxes containing completed orders may themselves represent inventory items.

In particular embodiments inventory system may also include one or more inventory stations . Inventory stations represent locations designated for the completion of particular tasks involving inventory items. Such tasks may include the removal of inventory items from inventory holders the introduction of inventory items into inventory holders the counting of inventory items in inventory holders the decomposition of inventory items e.g. from pallet or case sized groups to individual inventory items the consolidation of inventory items between inventory holders and or the processing or handling of inventory items in any other suitable manner. In particular embodiments inventory stations may just represent the physical locations where a particular task involving inventory items can be completed within workspace . In alternative embodiments inventory stations may represent both the physical location and also any appropriate equipment for processing or handling inventory items such as scanners for monitoring the flow of inventory items in and out of inventory system communication interfaces for communicating with management module and or any other suitable components. Inventory stations may be controlled entirely or in part by human operators or may be fully automated. Moreover the human or automated operators of inventory stations may be capable of performing certain tasks to inventory items such as packing counting or transferring inventory items as part of the operation of inventory system .

In particular embodiments more or less inventory stations may be included in the inventory system . For example when inventory station is used as a reading station equipped with the appropriate hardware to read RFID tags e.g. reader system including a reader one or more antennas etc. there may be fewer inventory stations . Thus at the inventory stations in this embodiment the RFID tags associated with the inventory items stowed in the inventory holders may be read. In some examples the inventory stations may include reading structures configured to receive the inventory holders and read the RFID tags . For example as detailed herein the reading structures may include two or more upright poles with fixed antennas an upside down u shaped structure similar to a door frame with fixed antennas a drive through structure with antennas fixed within a dome structure with antennas fixed within a frame with a plurality of flexible antennas extending below the frame towards the floor of the workspace a frame with a plurality of oscillating flexible antennas extending below the frame towards the floor of the workspace and other similar structures.

Workspace represents an area associated with inventory system in which mobile drive units can move and or inventory holders can be stored. For example workspace may represent all or part of the floor of a mail order warehouse in which inventory system operates. Although shows for the purposes of illustration an embodiment of inventory system in which workspace includes a fixed predetermined and finite physical space particular embodiments of inventory system may include mobile drive units and inventory holders that are configured to operate within a workspace that is of variable dimensions and or an arbitrary geometry. While illustrates a particular embodiment of inventory system in which workspace is entirely enclosed in a building alternative embodiments may utilize workspaces in which some or all of the workspace is located outdoors within a vehicle such as a cargo ship or otherwise unconstrained by any fixed structure.

In operation management module selects appropriate components to complete particular tasks and transmits task assignments to the selected components to trigger completion of the relevant tasks. Each task assignment defines one or more tasks to be completed by a particular component. These tasks may relate to the retrieval storage replenishment and counting of inventory items and or the management of mobile drive units inventory holders inventory stations and other components of inventory system . Depending on the component and the task to be completed a particular task assignment may identify locations components and or actions associated with the corresponding task and or any other appropriate information to be used by the relevant component in completing the assigned task.

In particular embodiments management module generates task assignments based in part on inventory requests that management module receives from other components of inventory system and or from external components in communication with management module . These inventory requests identify particular operations to be completed involving inventory items stored or to be stored within inventory system and may represent communication of any suitable form. For example in particular embodiments an inventory request may represent a shipping order specifying particular inventory items that have been purchased by a customer and that are to be retrieved from inventory system for shipment to the customer. Management module may also generate task assignments independently of such inventory requests as part of the overall management and maintenance of inventory system . For example management module may generate task assignments in response to the occurrence of a particular event e.g. in response to a mobile drive unit requesting a space to park according to a predetermined schedule e.g. as part of a daily start up routine or at any appropriate time based on the configuration and characteristics of inventory system . After generating one or more task assignments management module transmits the generated task assignments to appropriate components for completion of the corresponding task. The relevant components then execute their assigned tasks.

With respect to mobile drive units specifically management module may in particular embodiments communicate task assignments to selected mobile drive units that identify one or more destinations for the selected mobile drive units . Management module may select a mobile drive unit to assign the relevant task based on the location or state of the selected mobile drive unit an indication that the selected mobile drive unit has completed a previously assigned task a predetermined schedule and or any other suitable consideration. These destinations may be associated with an inventory request the management module is executing or a management objective the management module is attempting to fulfill. For example the task assignment may define the location of an inventory holder to be retrieved an inventory station to be visited a storage location where the mobile drive unit should park until receiving another task or a location associated with any other task appropriate based on the configuration characteristics and or state of inventory system as a whole or individual components of inventory system . For example in particular embodiments such decisions may be based on the popularity of particular inventory items the staffing of a particular inventory station the tasks currently assigned to a particular mobile drive unit and or any other appropriate considerations.

As part of completing these tasks mobile drive units may dock with and transport inventory holders within workspace . Mobile drive units may dock with inventory holders by connecting to lifting and or otherwise interacting with inventory holders in any other suitable manner so that when docked mobile drive units are coupled to and or support inventory holders and can move inventory holders within workspace . While the description below focuses on particular embodiments of mobile drive unit and inventory holder that are configured to dock in a particular manner alternative embodiments of mobile drive unit and inventory holder may be configured to dock in any manner suitable to allow mobile drive unit to move inventory holder within workspace . Additionally as noted below in particular embodiments mobile drive units represent all or portions of inventory holders . In such embodiments mobile drive units may not dock with inventory holders before transporting inventory holders and or mobile drive units may each remain continually docked with a particular inventory holder .

While the appropriate components of inventory system complete assigned tasks management module may interact with the relevant components to ensure the efficient use of space equipment manpower and other resources available to inventory system . As one specific example of such interaction management module is responsible in particular embodiments for planning the paths mobile drive units take when moving within workspace and for allocating use of a particular portion of workspace to a particular mobile drive unit for purposes of completing an assigned task. In such embodiments mobile drive units may in response to being assigned a task request a path to a particular destination associated with the task. Moreover while the description below focuses on one or more embodiments in which mobile drive unit requests paths from management module mobile drive unit may in alternative embodiments generate its own paths.

Components of inventory system may provide information to management module regarding their current state other components of inventory system with which they are interacting and or other conditions relevant to the operation of inventory system . This may allow management module to utilize feedback from the relevant components to update algorithm parameters adjust policies or otherwise modify its decision making to respond to changes in operating conditions or the occurrence of particular events.

In addition while management module may be configured to manage various aspects of the operation of the components of inventory system in particular embodiments the components themselves may also be responsible for decision making relating to certain aspects of their operation thereby reducing the processing load on management module .

Thus based on its knowledge of the location current state and or other characteristics of the various components of inventory system and an awareness of all the tasks currently being completed management module can generate tasks allot usage of system resources and otherwise direct the completion of tasks by the individual components in a manner that optimizes operation from a system wide perspective. Moreover by relying on a combination of both centralized system wide management and localized component specific decision making particular embodiments of inventory system may be able to support a number of techniques for efficiently executing various aspects of the operation of inventory system . As a result particular embodiments of management module may by implementing one or more management techniques described below enhance the efficiency of inventory system and or provide other operational benefits.

Processor is operable to execute instructions associated with the functionality provided by management module . Processor may comprise one or more general purpose computers dedicated microprocessors or other processing devices capable of communicating electronic information. Examples of processor include one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs and any other suitable specific or general purpose processors.

Memory stores processor instructions inventory requests reservation information state information for the various components of inventory system and or any other appropriate values parameters or information utilized by management module during operation. Memory may represent any collection and arrangement of volatile or nonvolatile local or remote devices suitable for storing data. Examples of memory include but are not limited to random access memory RAM devices read only memory ROM devices magnetic storage devices optical storage devices or any other suitable data storage devices.

Resource scheduling module processes received inventory requests and generates one or more assigned tasks to be completed by the components of inventory system . Resource scheduling module may also select one or more appropriate components for completing the assigned tasks and using communication interface module communicate the assigned tasks to the relevant components. Additionally resource scheduling module may also be responsible for generating assigned tasks associated with various management operations such as prompting mobile drive units to recharge batteries or have batteries replaced instructing inactive mobile drive units to park in a location outside the anticipated traffic flow or a location near the anticipated site of future tasks and or directing mobile drive units selected for repair or maintenance to move towards a designated maintenance station.

Route planning module receives route requests from mobile drive units . These route requests identify one or more destinations associated with a task the requesting mobile drive unit is executing. In response to receiving a route request route planning module generates a path to one or more destinations identified in the route request. Route planning module may implement any appropriate algorithms utilizing any appropriate parameters factors and or considerations to determine the appropriate path. After generating an appropriate path route planning module transmits a route response identifying the generated path to the requesting mobile drive unit using communication interface module .

Segment reservation module receives reservation requests from mobile drive units attempting to move along paths generated by route planning module . These reservation requests request the use of a particular portion of workspace referred to herein as a segment to allow the requesting mobile drive unit to avoid collisions with other mobile drive units while moving across the reserved segment. In response to received reservation requests segment reservation module transmits a reservation response granting or denying the reservation request to the requesting mobile drive unit using the communication interface module .

The inventory module maintains information about the location and number of inventory items in the inventory system . Information can be maintained about the number of inventory items in a particular inventory holder and the maintained information can include the location of those inventory items in the inventory holder . The inventory module can also communicate with the mobile drive units utilizing task assignments to maintain replenish or move inventory items within the inventory system .

Communication interface module facilitates communication between management module and other components of inventory system including reservation responses reservation requests route requests route responses and task assignments. These reservation responses reservation requests route requests route responses and task assignments may represent communication of any form appropriate based on the capabilities of management module and may include any suitable information. Depending on the configuration of management module communication interface module may be responsible for facilitating either or both of wired and wireless communication between management module and the various components of inventory system . In particular embodiments management module may communicate using communication protocols such as 802.11 Bluetooth or Infrared Data Association IrDA standards. Furthermore management module may in particular embodiments represent a portion of mobile drive unit or other components of inventory system . In such embodiments communication interface module may facilitate communication between management module and other parts of the same system component.

In general resource scheduling module route planning module segment reservation module inventory module and communication interface module may each represent any appropriate hardware and or software suitable to provide the described functionality. In addition as noted above management module may in particular embodiments represent multiple different discrete components and any or all of resource scheduling module route planning module segment reservation module inventory module and communication interface module may represent components physically separate from the remaining elements of management module . Moreover any two or more of resource scheduling module route planning module segment reservation module inventory module and communication interface module may share common components. For example in particular embodiments resource scheduling module route planning module segment reservation module and inventory module represent computer processes executing on processor and communication interface module comprises a wireless transmitter a wireless receiver and a related computer process executing on processor .

Docking head in particular embodiments of mobile drive unit couples mobile drive unit to inventory holder and or supports inventory holder when mobile drive unit is docked to inventory holder . Docking head may additionally allow mobile drive unit to maneuver inventory holder such as by lifting inventory holder propelling inventory holder rotating inventory holder and or moving inventory holder in any other appropriate manner. Docking head may also include any appropriate combination of components such as ribs spikes and or corrugations to facilitate such manipulation of inventory holder . For example in particular embodiments docking head may include a high friction portion that abuts a portion of inventory holder while mobile drive unit is docked to inventory holder . In such embodiments frictional forces created between the high friction portion of docking head and a surface of inventory holder may induce translational and rotational movement in inventory holder when docking head moves and rotates respectively. As a result mobile drive unit may be able to manipulate inventory holder by moving or rotating docking head either independently or as a part of the movement of mobile drive unit as a whole.

Drive module propels mobile drive unit and when mobile drive unit and inventory holder are docked inventory holder . Drive module may represent any appropriate collection of components operable to propel mobile drive unit . For example in the illustrated embodiment drive module includes motorized axle a pair of motorized wheels and a pair of stabilizing wheels . One motorized wheel is located at each end of motorized axle and one stabilizing wheel is positioned at each end of mobile drive unit .

Docking actuator moves docking head towards inventory holder to facilitate docking of mobile drive unit and inventory holder . Docking actuator may also be capable of adjusting the position or orientation of docking head in other suitable manners to facilitate docking. Docking actuator may include any appropriate components based on the configuration of mobile drive unit and inventory holder for moving docking head or otherwise adjusting the position or orientation of docking head . For example in the illustrated embodiment docking actuator includes a motorized shaft not shown attached to the center of docking head . The motorized shaft is operable to lift docking head as appropriate for docking with inventory holder .

Drive module may be configured to propel mobile drive unit in any appropriate manner. For example in the illustrated embodiment motorized wheels are operable to rotate in a first direction to propel mobile drive unit in a forward direction. Motorized wheels are also operable to rotate in a second direction to propel mobile drive unit in a backward direction. In the illustrated embodiment drive module is also configured to rotate mobile drive unit by rotating motorized wheels in different directions from one another or by rotating motorized wheels at different speeds from one another.

Position sensor represents one or more sensors detectors or other components suitable for determining the location of mobile drive unit in any appropriate manner. For example in particular embodiments the workspace associated with inventory system includes a number of fiducial marks that mark points on a two dimensional grid that covers all or a portion of workspace . In such embodiments position sensor may include a camera and suitable image and or video processing components such as an appropriately programmed digital signal processor to allow position sensor to detect fiducial marks within the camera s field of view. Control module may store location information that position sensor updates as position sensor detects fiducial marks. As a result position sensor may utilize fiducial marks to maintain an accurate indication of the location mobile drive unit and to aid in navigation when moving within workspace .

Holder sensor represents one or more sensors detectors or other components suitable for detecting inventory holder and or determining in any appropriate manner the location of inventory holder as an absolute location or as a position relative to mobile drive unit . Holder sensor may be capable of detecting the location of a particular portion of inventory holder or inventory holder as a whole. Mobile drive unit may then use the detected information for docking with or otherwise interacting with inventory holder .

Obstacle sensor represents one or more sensors capable of detecting objects located in one or more different directions in which mobile drive unit is capable of moving. Obstacle sensor may utilize any appropriate components and techniques including optical radar sonar pressure sensing and or other types of detection devices appropriate to detect objects located in the direction of travel of mobile drive unit . In particular embodiments obstacle sensor may transmit information describing objects it detects to control module to be used by control module to identify obstacles and to take appropriate remedial actions to prevent mobile drive unit from colliding with obstacles and or other objects.

Obstacle sensor may also detect signals transmitted by other mobile drive units operating in the vicinity of the illustrated mobile drive unit . For example in particular embodiments of inventory system one or more mobile drive units may include an identification signal transmitter that transmits a drive identification signal. The drive identification signal indicates to other mobile drive units that the object transmitting the drive identification signal is in fact a mobile drive unit. Identification signal transmitter may be capable of transmitting infrared ultraviolet audio visible light radio and or other suitable signals that indicate to recipients that the transmitting device is a mobile drive unit .

Additionally in particular embodiments obstacle sensor may also be capable of detecting state information transmitted by other mobile drive units . For example in particular embodiments identification signal transmitter may be capable of including state information relating to mobile drive unit in the transmitted identification signal. This state information may include but is not limited to the position velocity direction and the braking capabilities of the transmitting mobile drive unit . In particular embodiments mobile drive unit may use the state information transmitted by other mobile drive units to avoid collisions when operating in close proximity with those other mobile drive units.

Control module monitors and or controls operation of drive module and docking actuator . Control module may also receive information from sensors such as position sensor and holder sensor and adjust the operation of drive module docking actuator and or other components of mobile drive unit based on this information. Additionally in particular embodiments mobile drive unit may be configured to communicate with a management device of inventory system and control module may receive commands transmitted to mobile drive unit and communicate information back to the management device utilizing appropriate communication components of mobile drive unit . Control module may include any appropriate hardware and or software suitable to provide the described functionality. In particular embodiments control module includes a general purpose microprocessor programmed to provide the described functionality. Additionally control module may include all or portions of docking actuator drive module position sensor and or holder sensor and or share components with any of these elements of mobile drive unit .

Moreover in particular embodiments control module may include hardware and software located in components that are physically distinct from the device that houses drive module docking actuator and or the other components of mobile drive unit described above. For example in particular embodiments each mobile drive unit operating in inventory system may be associated with a software process referred to here as a drive agent operating on a server that is in communication with the device that houses drive module docking actuator and other appropriate components of mobile drive unit . This drive agent may be responsible for requesting and receiving tasks requesting and receiving routes transmitting state information associated with mobile drive unit and or otherwise interacting with management module and other components of inventory system on behalf of the device that physically houses drive module docking actuator and the other appropriate components of mobile drive unit . As a result for the purposes of this description and the claims that follow the term mobile drive unit includes software and or hardware such as agent processes that provides the described functionality on behalf of mobile drive unit but that may be located in physically distinct devices from the drive module docking actuator and or the other components of mobile drive unit described above.

While illustrate a particular embodiment of mobile drive unit containing certain components and configured to operate in a particular manner mobile drive unit may represent any appropriate component and or collection of components configured to transport and or facilitate the transport of inventory holders . As another example mobile drive unit may represent part of an overhead crane system in which one or more crane assemblies are capable of moving within a network of wires or rails to a position suitable to dock with a particular inventory holder . After docking with inventory holder the crane assembly may then lift inventory holder and move inventory to another location for purposes of completing an assigned task.

Furthermore in particular embodiments mobile drive unit may represent all or a portion of inventory holder . Inventory holder may include motorized wheels or any other components suitable to allow inventory holder to propel itself. As one specific example a portion of inventory holder may be responsive to magnetic fields. Inventory system may be able to generate one or more controlled magnetic fields capable of propelling maneuvering and or otherwise controlling the position of inventory holder as a result of the responsive portion of inventory holder . In such embodiments mobile drive unit may represent the responsive portion of inventory holder and or the components of inventory system responsible for generating and controlling these magnetic fields. While this description provides several specific examples mobile drive unit may in general represent any appropriate component and or collection of components configured to transport and or facilitate the transport of inventory holders .

Frame holds inventory items . Frame provides storage space for storing inventory items external or internal to frame . The storage space provided by frame may be divided into a plurality of inventory bins each capable of holding inventory items . Inventory bins may include any appropriate storage elements such as bins compartments or hooks.

In a particular embodiment frame is composed of a plurality of trays stacked upon one another and attached to or stacked on a base . In such an embodiment inventory bins may be formed by a plurality of adjustable dividers that may be moved to resize one or more inventory bins . In alternative embodiments frame may represent a single inventory bin that includes a single tray and no adjustable dividers . Additionally in particular embodiments frame may represent a load bearing surface mounted on mobility element . Inventory items may be stored on such an inventory holder by being placed on frame . In general frame may include storage internal and or external storage space divided into any appropriate number of inventory bins in any appropriate manner.

Additionally in a particular embodiment frame may include a plurality of device openings that allow mobile drive unit to position docking head adjacent docking surface . The size shape and placement of device openings may be determined based on the size the shape and other characteristics of the particular embodiment of mobile drive unit and or inventory holder utilized by inventory system . For example in the illustrated embodiment frame includes four legs that form device openings and allow mobile drive unit to position mobile drive unit under frame and adjacent to docking surface . The length of legs may be determined based on a height of mobile drive unit .

Docking surface comprises a portion of inventory holder that couples to abuts and or rests upon a portion of docking head when mobile drive unit is docked to inventory holder . Additionally docking surface supports a portion or all of the weight of inventory holder while inventory holder is docked with mobile drive unit . The composition shape and or texture of docking surface may be designed to facilitate maneuvering of inventory holder by mobile drive unit . For example as noted above in particular embodiments docking surface may comprise a high friction portion. When mobile drive unit and inventory holder are docked frictional forces induced between docking head and this high friction portion may allow mobile drive unit to maneuver inventory holder . Additionally in particular embodiments docking surface may include appropriate components suitable to receive a portion of docking head couple inventory holder to mobile drive unit and or facilitate control of inventory holder by mobile drive unit .

Holder identifier marks a predetermined portion of inventory holder and mobile drive unit may use holder identifier to align with inventory holder during docking and or to determine the location of inventory holder . More specifically in particular embodiments mobile drive unit may be equipped with components such as holder sensor that can detect holder identifier and determine its location relative to mobile drive unit . As a result mobile drive unit may be able to determine the location of inventory holder as a whole. For example in particular embodiments holder identifier may represent a reflective marker that is positioned at a predetermined location on inventory holder and that holder sensor can optically detect using an appropriately configured camera.

Depending on the configuration and characteristics of mobile drive unit and inventory system mobile drive unit may move inventory holder using a variety of appropriate methods. In a particular embodiment mobile drive unit is capable of moving inventory holder along a two dimensional grid combining movement along straight line segments with ninety degree rotations and arcing paths to transport inventory holder from the first location to the second location. Additionally while moving mobile drive unit may use fixed objects located in the workspace as reference points to assist in navigation. For example in particular embodiments inventory system includes multiple fiducial marks . Mobile drive unit may be configured to detect fiducial marks and to determine the location of mobile drive unit and or measure its movement based on the detection of fiducial marks .

After mobile drive unit arrives at the second location mobile drive unit may perform appropriate operations to facilitate access to inventory items stored in inventory holder . For example mobile drive unit may rotate inventory holder to present a particular face of inventory holder to an operator of inventory system or other suitable party such as a packer selecting inventory items from inventory holder . Mobile drive unit may also undock from inventory holder . Alternatively instead of undocking at the second location mobile drive unit may transport inventory holder back to the first location or to a third location after any appropriate actions have been taken involving inventory items . For example after a packer has removed particular inventory items from inventory holder mobile drive unit may return inventory holder to its original storage location a new storage location or another inventory station. Mobile drive unit may then undock from inventory holder at this new location.

As introduced above embodiments herein are directed to an inventory system having multiple inventory holders and drive units for moving the inventory holders. Specifically features herein are directed to managing inventory items of an inventory system using RFID tags.

In is illustrated an example schematic architecture for implementing techniques relating to managing inventory items using RFID tags as described herein. The architecture may include the management module the reader system and an inventory management system in communication with each other via one or more network s . The architecture may be implemented as part of implementing the inventory system . Thus the inventory system includes the management module in the architecture the inventory system may also include the reader system and the inventory management system .

As discussed above the management module may be configured to manage the movement and operation of the mobile drive units . The reader system may be configured to manage the reading of the RFID tags attached to the inventory items stowed within the inventory holder . To this end the reader system may be any suitable RF reader system capable of reading RFID tags. In some examples the reader system may be an active reader passive tag system. In other examples the reader system may be a passive reader active tag system an active reader active tag system or any other suitable reader system and tag combination. The reader system may be configured to read tags using any suitable frequency band including low frequency bands high frequency bands ultra high frequency bands microwave bands and any other suitable frequency bands.

The reader system may include reader . The reader may include one or more computers servers or the like. Accordingly the reader may include one or more processors memory and an interface . The processors may include one or more general purpose computers dedicated microprocessors or other processing devices capable of communicating electronic information. Examples of the processor include one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs and any other suitable specific or general purpose processors. Computer executable instruction software or firmware implementations of the processor may include computer executable or machine executable instructions written in any suitable programming language to perform the various functions described. Thus the processor may be configured to access the one or more applications engines modules or components of the memory to perform the techniques described herein.

The memory may include more than one memory and may be distributed. The memory may store program instructions e.g. reader management module that are loadable and executable on the processor as well as data generated during the execution of these programs. Depending on the configuration and type of memory including the reader the memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory or other memory . Within the memory may be stored unique tag IDs associated with the RFID tags . Thus after a particular RFID tag has been read identifying information for that RFID tag may be retained in the memory prior to being provided to the inventory management system .

The interface of the reader may comprise one or more interfaces each of which may be configured to receive inputs and provide outputs relating to reading RFID tags. For example the interface may be an antenna interface capable of connecting antennas N to the reader system . Thus the interface may enable the reader to communicate with the RFID tags via the antennas . The antennas may be any suitable antennas configured to transmit and receive RF energy. In and other figures are illustrated example configurations for mounting the antennas .

The reader management module may be configured to manage one or more sub modules components and or services directed to examples disclosed herein. In some examples the reader management module may include a communication module a reader management module and an inventory management module . While these modules will be described as performing discrete tasks with reference to the flow charts it is understood that illustrates example configurations and other configurations performing other tasks and or similar tasks as those described herein may be implemented according to the techniques described herein. In some examples the reader management module may be implemented as appropriate in hardware or software.

The communication module may be configured to receive requests from other components of the architecture and communicate responses to other components of the architecture . For example the communication module may receive and evaluate a request to read the inventory holder . The request may come from the inventory management system and or the management module . In some examples the communication module may provide inventory information to the inventory management system . Such inventory information may include indications of the RFID tags or other RFID tags e.g. an inventory holder RFID tag that have been identified by the reader system . In some examples the inventory information may be provided to the inventory management system in real time or substantially real time. In some examples the inventory information may be provided to the inventory management system periodically in accordance with a threshold and in other suitable ways.

The reader management module may be configured to manage the transmission of RF energy via the antennas and the collection of RF energy via the antennas . For example the reader management module may determine when to turn on and when to turn off the reader and or the antennas . The reader management module may determine the unique tag IDs for each of the RFID tags read by the reader . In some examples the reader management module may be configured to read and suppress RFID tags. For example after the reader management module has read the RFID tag the reader management module may suppress the RFID tag in order to focus on the other RFID tags e.g. N . In this manner the reader may focus its search for RFID tags. The reader management module may also manage signal conversion of the signals received via the antennas .

The inventory management module may be configured to determine inventory information based on the RFID tags collected by the reader system . For example the inventory management module may compile the unique tag IDs into a list and provide the list to the communication module to provide to the inventory management system . In some examples the inventory management module may compare the inventory information with a manifest received from the inventory management system . In this manner the reader system may operate autonomously or partially autonomously from the inventory management system .

The inventory management system may include one or more computers perhaps arranged in a cluster of servers or as a server farm. The memory and processors that make up these computers may be located within one computer or distributed throughout many computers as detailed herein. These servers may be configured to manage inventory of the inventory system and other systems. For example the inventory management system may be configured to manage inventory for an electronic marketplace. In this example the inventory management system may manage inventory while it is located at variety of different locations e.g. warehouses shipping centers and other locations . This may also involve end to end tracking of inventory. In some examples the reader system may enable the inventory management system to more effectively manage the inventory of a particular warehouse or multiple warehouses.

The inventory management system may include at least one memory and one or more processing units or processor s . The processor may be implemented as appropriate in hardware computer executable instructions software firmware or combinations thereof. Computer executable instruction software or firmware implementations of the processor may include computer executable or machine executable instructions written in any suitable programming language to perform the various functions described. The memory may include more than one memory and may be distributed throughout the inventory management system . The memory may store program instructions e.g. inventory engine that are loadable and executable on the processor s as well as data generated during the execution of these programs. Depending on the configuration and type of memory included the inventory management system the memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory or other memory . The inventory management system may also include additional removable storage and or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical disks and or tape storage. The disk drives and their associated computer readable media may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing devices. In some examples the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or ROM. The memory may include an operating system and one or more application programs modules or services for implementing the features disclosed herein including at least the inventory engine .

In some examples the inventory management system may also include additional storage which may include removable storage and or non removable storage. The additional storage may include but is not limited to magnetic storage optical disks and or tape storage. The disk drives and their associated computer readable media may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing devices. The memory and the additional storage both removable and non removable are examples of computer readable storage media. For example computer readable storage media may include volatile or non volatile removable or non removable media implemented in any suitable method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. As used herein modules engines and components may refer to programming modules executed by computing systems e.g. processors that are part of the architecture . The inventory management system may also include input output I O device s and or ports such as for enabling connection with a keyboard a mouse a pen a voice input device a touch input device a display speakers a printer or other I O device.

In some examples the inventory management system may also include a user interface . The user interface may be utilized by an operator or other authorized user to access portions of the inventory management system . In some examples the user interface may include a graphical user interface web based applications programmatic interfaces such as application programming interfaces APIs or other user interface configurations. The inventory management system may also include a data store . In some examples the data store may include one or more data stores databases data structures or the like for storing and or retaining information associated with the inventory management system . Thus the data store may include data structures such as the manifest data store .

The manifest data store may be used to retain manifests or lists of items within the inventory system . In some examples a manifest may include a list of items expected to be stowed within a particular inventory holder . For example as an inventory item is received into the inventory system it may be tagged with an RFID tag . Within the manifest the RFID tag and the corresponding inventory item may be associated. For example the manifest may include a table that may include the unique tag ID identifying the RFID tag a product identification code identifying the inventory item e.g. a universal product code UPC a European article number EAN an international standard book number ISB an Amazon standard identification number ASIN or the like and any other suitable information and or characteristics to identify the inventory item . This table may be retained within the manifest data store . This table may be accessed by the inventory engine to perform the techniques described herein. In some examples a portion of the manifest may be provided to the reader system to perform the techniques described herein.

Finally the network can include any appropriate network including an intranet the Internet a cellular network a local area network or any other such network or combination thereof. Components used for the architecture may depend at least in part upon the type of network and or environment selected. The network may be proprietary or non proprietary.

In some examples the reading station and any other reading station discussed herein may be located at the inventory station previously discussed. The reading station and any other reading station discussed herein may also be located at another location within the workspace . Irrespective of where the reading station or any other reading station discussed herein is located the reading station or any other reading station discussed herein may be used to implement techniques relating to managing inventory using RFID tags.

The reading station includes a reading structure and may receive the inventory holder within or near the reading structure . The reading structure may include one or more elongated members A B . The elongated members may be disposed adjacent to each other and in some examples may be directly opposite each other. The elongated members may be attached to foot areas A B . The foot areas may be configured to provide support to the elongated members . The reading structure may also include one or more antennas attached to each of the elongated members . While one antenna is shown attached to one elongated member it is understood that more than one antenna may be provided on each elongated member . It is also understood that more than two elongated members may be provided. In some examples it may be desirable that the antennas are aligned in different directions to maximize the amount of RF energy that may be provided in the direction of the inventory holder . The antennas may be included in the reader system and may therefore be in communication with the reader via one or more wired connections wireless connections and any combination of both. The reader not shown may be located at the reading station or at a remote location.

The inventory holder is illustrated as including a plurality of compartments and inventory items stowed in some of the plurality of compartments . The inventory holder may be constructed of any suitable material that may be permeable by RF energy. For example the inventory holder may be constructed of fabric plastic cardboard webbing and the like. In some examples the inventory holder may include a frame with fabric plastic webbing or cardboard attached to the frame . In this manner the RF energy may be unobstructed as it moves between the compartments to read the tags attached to the inventory items . In some examples the frame may be constructed of metal or some other rigid material. The inventory holder may have a rectangular or cubicle shape. In some examples the inventory holder may have a cylindrical triangular trapezoidal or any other suitable shape.

As illustrated in the the inventory holder is shown coupled to the mobile drive unit . Because the mobile drive unit is coupled to the inventory holder the mobile drive unit may be configured to move the inventory holder . For example the mobile drive unit may rotate as indicated by arrows the inventory holder in order to expose the different sides of the inventory holder to the antennas . The reader may then interrogate the RFID tags attached to the inventory items stowed in all of the different compartments .

The techniques described herein may be implemented in accordance with the following examples. An isolated reading station may be provided and mobile drive units may move the inventory holders to the reading station in accordance with some scheduling rule which may be user defined learned and or estimated. For example the scheduling rule may indicate that each time an inventory item is picked from the inventory holder the inventory holder should be read. In some examples the scheduling rule may indicate that the inventory holder should be read at least one time per day each time it passes the reading station before and or after any particular tasks or operations etc.

Once the mobile drive unit moves the inventory holder into the reading station the inventory holder may be identified e.g. via a RFID tag on the inventory holder . Next a manifest may be identified from the inventory system based on the identified inventory holder . The RFID tags within inventory holder may then be read by one or more readers via one or more antennas. While the tags are being read the mobile drive unit may spin the inventory holder in place for a fixed period of time e.g. one minute in accordance with a fall off curve or according to any other convention. Meanwhile the inventory items corresponding to the RFID tags that have been read may be compared with items from the manifest. Later the mobile drive unit may move the inventory holder out of the reading station. In some examples the comparing may reveal that certain inventory items are missing from the inventory holder . These missing inventory items may be recorded and considered the next time the inventory holder is read. In some examples if one of the inventory items is not identified after one or more readings the reader system and or the inventory system may generate a report. The report may be provided to schedule human intervention. For example the report may be used by a human user to investigate the inventory holder to look for the missing inventory item. In some examples the report may identify the inventory holder its location within the inventory system details about the missing item e.g. product identification code and or where the RFID tag was placed on the missing item which may be determined from one or more placement rules enforced at inventory item intake.

At the process transmits a radio frequency transmission in the direction of the inventory holder. In some examples transmitting the radio frequency transmission in the direction of the inventory holder may be performed by the reader management module . Transmitting the radio frequency transmission may include providing an interrogation signal via one or more antennas. In some examples the radio frequency transmission may be transmitted in other directions in addition to the direction of the inventory holder.

At the process collects radio frequency responses. In some examples collecting the radio frequency responses may be performed by reader management module . Collecting the radio frequency responses may include collecting by a reader radio frequency responses in response to the radio frequency transmission contacting one or more RFID tags. In some examples such contact may energize the one or more RFID tags and cause the RFID tags to provide authentication replies.

At the process identifies from the radio frequency responses a plurality of items. In some examples identifying the plurality of items may be performed by the reader system and or the inventory management module . Identifying the plurality of items may include identifying inventory items stowed in compartments of the inventory holder. In some examples identifying inventory items may involve resolving the collected RFID tags to determine with which items the RFID tags are associated. In some examples identifying the plurality of items includes identifying at least a portion of the items while a mobile drive unit rotates the inventory holder relative to the one or more antennas. In some examples the mobile drive unit moves the inventory holder according to a pattern e.g. a figure eight that may be user defined arbitrary or learned. Moving the inventory holder may expose different sides of the inventory holder to the one or more antennas and may also expose different sides of the inventory items and therefore the RFID tags to the one or more antennas. In this manner the capability to read all RFID tags within the moving inventory holder may increase over a stationary inventory holder. In some examples the amount of RF energy transmitted in the direction of the inventory holder may be so concentrated that spinning rotating and any other movement may be unnecessary. For example in certain examples discussed herein high identification rates e.g. greater than 95 may be achieved with little to no movement within the reading structure.

At the process receives a list of items expected to be in the inventory holder. Receiving the list of items expected to be in the inventory holder may be performed by the communication module . Receiving the list may include receiving a manifest including the list from an inventory system. In some examples the manifest may have been previously developed as inventory items were added to the inventory system.

At the process compares the list of items with the plurality of items. In some examples comparing the list of items with the plurality of items may be performed by the reader system and or the inventory management module . Comparing the list of items may include comparing the list of items in accordance with a confidence threshold. For example the confidence threshold may indicate when the collecting of radio frequency responses should stop and or when the mobile drive unit should stop moving e.g. rotating the inventory holder. In some examples the confidence threshold may indicate a confidence level or confidence range. The confidence threshold may therefore indicate how confident the reader system is that it has identified all of possible inventory items. For example a confidence level of 100 may indicate that every inventory item from the manifest was identified as being in the inventory holder. In the same vein if the manifest indicates that 100 inventory items should be stowed in the inventory holder and 85 inventory items are identified by reading 85 tags the confidence level may be 85 . In some examples the confidence level and or confidence threshold may correspond to a fall off curve. For example as a read time increases i.e. the total time that a reader is interrogating tags the number of identified tags over time may increase level off then begin to fall. Thus even though the reader may continue to interrogate tags the fall off curve may indicate that it is going to take too much time according to some standard to identify any more tags. Thus the reader may be instructed to stop interrogating tags and or the mobile drive unit may be instructed to move the inventory holder away from the reading station. In some examples the confidence level may increase each time the inventory holder is read.

At the process initiates two or more antennas attached to a reading structure. In some examples initiating the two or more antennas attached to the reading structure may be performed by the reader system . Initiating the two or more antennas may include sending a turn on signal to the two or more antennas. In some examples the two or more antennas are attached to the reading structure in a manner suitable for reading the RFID tags. In some examples the two or more antennas may be attached at opposite angles. In some examples the two or more antennas may be rotatable and or adjustable. In some examples the antennas may be included in a rotatable device configured to rotate around the inventory holder to read the RFID tags. In some examples the two or more antennas may be any suitable antennas including linear polarized antennas monostatic circular antennas bistatic circular antennas or any combination of the antennas just described.

At the process reads a first RFID tag associated with a first item when at the first position. In some examples reading the first RFID tag associated with the first item when at the first position may be performed by the reader system . Reading the first RFID tag may include reading the first RFID tag when the inventory holder is located at the first position. In some examples the inventory holder may be in motion while at the first position. In some examples the inventory holder may be rotating while at the first position. In some examples more tags than the first RFID tag may be read while at the first position.

At the process instructs the mobile drive unit to rotate the inventory holder to a second position. In some examples instructing the mobile drive unit to rotate the inventory holder to the second position may be performed by the management module . Instructing the mobile drive unit may include instructing the mobile drive unit to rotate the inventory holder around an axis substantially parallel to the height of the inventory holder and substantially orthogonal to a surface on which the mobile drive unit is moving. In some examples the mobile drive unit may rotate the inventory holder around some other axis of rotation e.g. around one of the two or more antennas .

At the process reads a second RFID tag associated with a second item when at the second position. In some examples reading the second RFID tag associated with the second item when at the second position may be performed by the reader system . Reading the second RFID tag may include reading when the inventory holder is located at the second position. In some examples more tags than the second RFID tag may be read while at the second position.

At the process reads tags associated with items in the inventory holder when at a first position. In some examples reading tags associated with items in the inventory holder when at the first position may be performed by the reader system . Reading the tags may include energizing the tags using a RF signal transmission. In some examples the first position may be at or near a reading station which includes a reading structure and one or more antennas.

At the process receives indications of read tags. In some examples receiving the indications of the read tags may be performed by the reader system . Receiving the indications of the read tags may include receiving responses from the tags in response to the RF signal transmission. Such indications may be associated with inventory information and may be included in an inventory list.

At the process instructs a mobile drive unit to move the inventory holder to a different position. In some examples instructing the mobile drive unit to move the inventory holder to the different position may be performed by the management module . Instructing the mobile drive unit may include instructing the mobile drive unit to rotate or otherwise move the inventory holder. In some examples the indications of read tags received at may inform how the process instructs the mobile drive unit to move the inventory holder at . For example at from the tags read at the process may determine whether movement would enable more tags to be read. Such movement may be appropriate after some tags have been read at but others still remain unread i.e. have not yet been identified . The process may therefore decide when to move the inventory holder via the mobile drive unit based on the reading of tags.

At the process reads tags associated with items in the inventory holder when at the different position. In some examples reading the tags associated with the items in the inventory holder when at the different position may be performed by the reader system . Reading the tags may include reading the tags when inventory holder is oriented differently relative the reading structure compared to when the inventory holder was at the first position.

At the process receives indications of read tags. In some examples receiving the indications of the read tags may be performed by the reader system . Receiving the indications of the read tags may include receiving responses from the tags in response to the RF signal transmission. Such indications may be associated with inventory information and may be included in the inventory list.

At the process receives a list of record items. In some examples receiving the list of record items may be performed by the inventory system or may be performed by the reader system . Receiving the list of record items may include receiving a manifest including the list of record items. In some examples the list of record items may indicate items that are expected to be stowed within the inventory holder.

At a decision is made whether to stop reading. In some examples determining whether to stop reading may be performed by the reader system and or the inventory system . For example determining whether to stop may include comparing the list of record items with the inventory items to determine whether a suitable number of inventory items have been identified. In some examples this determination may correspond to a confidence level and or a confidence threshold each of which may correspond to a fall off curve. For example as read time increases i.e. the total time that a reader is interrogating tags the number of identified tags over time may increase level off then begin to fall. Thus even though the reader may continue to interrogate tags the fall off curve may indicate that it is going to take too much time according to some standard to identify any more tags. Thus the reader may be instructed to stop interrogating tags and or the mobile drive unit may be instructed to move the inventory holder away from the reading station. In some examples the confidence level may increase each time the inventory holder is read. If the answer at is no then the process returns to where tags are read. In some examples the process may return to to instruct the mobile drive unit to move the inventory holder to a different position prior to reading tags at . In this manner the mobile drive unit may repeatedly move the inventory holder until a confidence level and or threshold is reached as discussed above with regards to block .

If the answer at is yes then the process continues to . At the process instructs the mobile drive unit to move the inventory holder. In some examples instructing the mobile drive unit to move the inventory holder may be performed by the management module . Instructing the mobile drive unit may include instructing the mobile drive unit to move the inventory holder away from the reading structure.

The illustrative environment includes at least one application server and a data store . It should be understood that there can be several application servers layers or other elements processes or components which may be chained or otherwise configured which can interact to perform tasks such as obtaining data from an appropriate data store. As used herein the term data store refers to any device or combination of devices capable of storing accessing and retrieving data which may include any combination and number of data servers databases data storage devices and data storage media in any standard distributed or clustered environment. The application server can include any appropriate hardware and software for integrating with the data store as needed to execute aspects of one or more applications for the client device handling a majority of the data access and business logic for an application. The application server provides access control services in cooperation with the data store and is able to generate content such as text graphics audio and or video to be transferred to the user which may be served to the user by the Web server in the form of HyperText Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or another appropriate structured language in this example. The handling of all requests and responses as well as the delivery of content between the client device and the application server can be handled by the Web server. It should be understood that the Web and application servers are not required and are merely example components as structured code discussed herein can be executed on any appropriate device or host machine as discussed elsewhere herein.

The data store can include several separate data tables databases or other data storage mechanisms and media for storing data relating to a particular aspect. For example the data store illustrated includes mechanisms for storing information which can be used by modules described herein such as resource scheduling information route planning information segment reservation information and or inventory information . It should be understood that there can be many other aspects that may need to be stored in the data store such as for page image information and to access right information which can be stored in any of the above listed mechanisms as appropriate or in additional mechanisms in the data store . The data store is operable through logic associated therewith to receive instructions from the application server and obtain update or otherwise process data in response thereto.

Each server typically will include an operating system that provides executable program instructions for the general administration and operation of that server and typically will include a computer readable storage medium e.g. a hard disk random access memory read only memory etc. storing instructions that when executed by a processor of the server allow the server to perform its intended functions. Suitable implementations for the operating system and general functionality of the servers are known or commercially available and are readily implemented by persons having ordinary skill in the art particularly in light of the description herein.

The environment in one embodiment is a distributed computing environment utilizing several computer systems and components that are interconnected via communication links using one or more computer networks or direct connections. However it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that such a system could operate equally well in a system having fewer or a greater number of components than are illustrated in . Thus the depiction of the system in should be taken as being illustrative in nature and not limiting to the scope of the description.

The various embodiments further can be implemented in a wide variety of operating environments which in some cases can include one or more user computers computing devices or processing devices which can be used to operate any of a number of applications. User or client devices can include any of a number of general purpose personal computers such as desktop or laptop computers running a standard operating system as well as cellular wireless and handheld devices running mobile software and capable of supporting a number of networking and messaging protocols. Such a system also can include a number of workstations running any of a variety of commercially available operating systems and other known applications for purposes such as development and database management. These devices also can include other electronic devices such as dummy terminals thin clients gaming systems and other devices capable of communicating via a network.

Most embodiments utilize at least one network that would be familiar to those skilled in the art for supporting communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols such as Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP Open System Interconnection OSI File Transfer Protocol FTP Universal Plug and Play UpnP Network File System NFS Common Internet File System CIFS and AppleTalk. The network can be for example a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network an infrared network a wireless network and or any combination thereof.

In embodiments utilizing a Web server the Web server can run any of a variety of server or mid tier applications including Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP servers FTP servers Common Gateway Interface CGI servers data servers Java servers and business application servers. The server s also may be capable of executing programs or scripts in response requests from user devices such as by executing one or more Web applications that may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations thereof. The server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase and IBM .

The environment can include a variety of data stores and other memory and storage media as discussed above. These can reside in a variety of locations such as on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers or remote from any or all of the computers across the network. In a particular set of embodiments the information may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers servers or other network devices may be stored locally and or remotely as appropriate. Where a system includes computerized devices each such device can include hardware elements that may be electrically coupled via a bus the elements including for example at least one central processing unit CPU at least one input device e.g. a mouse keyboard controller touch screen or keypad and at least one output device e.g. a display device printer or speaker . Such a system may also include one or more storage devices such as disk drives optical storage devices and solid state storage devices such as random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM as well as removable media devices memory cards flash cards etc.

Such devices also can include a computer readable storage media reader a communications device e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device etc. and working memory as described above. The computer readable storage media reader can be connected with or configured to receive a computer readable storage medium representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices as well as storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information. The system and various devices also typically will include a number of software applications modules services or other elements located within at least one working memory device including an operating system and application programs such as a client application or Web browser. It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the a system device. Based at least in part on the description and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the description as set forth in the claims.

Other variations are within the spirit of the present description. Thus while the disclosed techniques are susceptible to various modifications and alternative constructions certain illustrated embodiments thereof are shown in the drawings and have been described above in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intention to limit the invention to the specific form or forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications alternative constructions and equivalents falling within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the disclosed embodiments especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. The term connected is to be construed as partly or wholly contained within attached to or joined together even if there is something intervening. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate embodiments of the invention and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.

Preferred embodiments of this description are described herein including the best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the invention. Variations of those preferred embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate and the inventors intend for the invention to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly this invention includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the invention unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in its entirety herein.

