---

title: Identifying and filtering incoming telephone calls to enhance privacy
abstract: A computer-implemented method for filtering a telephone call is provided. The method may comprise: receiving from a caller the telephone call directed to a communication device associated with an intended call recipient, the Internet being disposed between a computer implementing the method and the communication device, the intended call recipient being in a structure; determining a state of the intended call recipient using telemetry received from at least one of a sensor and an appliance disposed in the structure; scoring the telephone call based on predetermined scoring criteria to create a score indicative of a desirability of the telephone call, the predetermined scoring criteria being provided by the intended call recipient, the predetermined scoring criteria including the state of the intended call recipient; comparing the score to a predetermined threshold score; classifying the telephone call as an unwanted telephone call using the comparison; and selectively rejecting the unwanted telephone call.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09560198&OS=09560198&RS=09560198
owner: Ooma, Inc.
number: 09560198
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160715
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 15 169 615 filed May 31 2016 which in turn is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 034 457 filed Sep. 23 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 386 148 issued Jul. 5 2016. The disclosures of the above reference patent applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

This disclosure relates generally to privacy protection of telephone calls and more particularly to blocking of unwanted incoming telephone calls.

The approaches described in this section could be pursued but are not necessarily approaches that have previously been conceived or pursued. Therefore unless otherwise indicated it should not be assumed that any of the approaches described in this section qualify as prior art merely by virtue of their inclusion in this section.

With development of telephone communications the number of parties offering services via telephone has increased. Telephone calls from these parties such as telemarketers pollsters and charitable organizations sometimes referred to as spam calls robocalls or junk calls are typically unsolicited placed in bulk and made indiscriminately. Telemarketers employ increasingly sophisticated technology to get their calls through to their target audience in spite of people s desire to be left alone. Furthermore telemarketers can employ computers to dial a number until the call is answered so they can automatically transfer the call to a human agent. This can be heard as a pause after the phone call is answered but before the called party can speak to the human agent.

Consumers can employ a variety of defenses against undesired callers. Some telephone services can allow anonymous call reject so that the phone does not ring if the caller Identification ID is blocked. Unfortunately this strategy can prevent the receipt of calls from anyone who has set their outbound caller ID to be blocked in an attempt to maintain privacy. Legislation has been passed allowing consumers to opt out of receiving calls from telemarketers by adding their phone number to a national do not call list. However the effectiveness of this list has been undermined by the fact that it does not apply to political organizations and charities many telemarketers ignore the list and the prohibition does not apply to any entity that has previously conducted business with the target. Some privacy protection techniques can employ a whitelist of known acceptable callers and a blacklist of known undesired callers but blocking only blacklisted numbers often lets too many junk calls through due to the blacklist being incomplete while allowing only calls from whitelisted numbers may be too restrictive. Moreover managing blacklists and whitelists manually can be bothersome and often is not worth the effort.

In the meantime computational power and network databases have advanced so much that a network operator can employ far more sophisticated and automated means for protecting privacy of the user more accurately and with minimal interaction with the user. Current methods of spam blocking are inadequate and a new approach to privacy protection is needed in the field.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described in the Detailed Description below. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The present disclosure is related to various techniques for filtering telephone calls. Specifically a method for filtering a telephone call may comprise receiving from a caller a telephone call directed to a communication device associated with an intended call recipient. The received telephone call may be scored based on predetermined scoring criteria to create a score indicative of a desirability of the telephone call. Furthermore the method may comprise comparing the score to a predetermined threshold score. The method may further comprise selectively classifying based on the comparison the telephone call as an unwanted telephone call. Furthermore the method may comprise selectively rejecting the unwanted telephone call.

According to another approach of the present disclosure there is provided a system for filtering a telephone call. The system may comprise a processor. The processor may be configured to receive from a caller the telephone call directed to a communication device associated with an intended call recipient. The processor may be further configured to score the telephone call based on predetermined scoring criteria to create a score indicative of a desirability of the telephone call. Furthermore the processor may compare the created score to a predetermined threshold score and based on the comparison selectively classify the telephone call as an unwanted telephone call. Furthermore the processor may selectively reject the unwanted telephone call. The system may further comprise a memory unit configured to store data associated with the predetermined scoring criteria the predetermined threshold score a whitelist and a blacklist

According to a further approach a method for filtering a telephone call is provided. The method may comprise receiving from a caller the telephone call directed to a communication device associated with an intended call recipient the Internet being disposed between a computer implementing the method and the communication device the intended call recipient being in a structure determining a state of the intended call recipient using telemetry received from at least one of a sensor and an appliance disposed in the structure scoring the telephone call based on predetermined scoring criteria to create a score indicative of a desirability of the telephone call the predetermined scoring criteria being provided by the intended call recipient the predetermined scoring criteria including the state of the intended call recipient comparing the score to a predetermined threshold score classifying the telephone call as an unwanted telephone call using the comparison and selectively rejecting the unwanted telephone call.

In further example embodiments of the present disclosure the method steps are stored on a machine readable medium comprising instructions which when implemented by one or more processors perform the recited steps. In yet further example embodiments hardware systems or devices can be adapted to perform the recited steps. Other features examples and embodiments are described below.

The following detailed description includes references to the accompanying drawings which form a part of the detailed description. The drawings show illustrations in accordance with example embodiments. These example embodiments which are also referred to herein as examples are described in enough detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the present subject matter. The embodiments can be combined other embodiments can be utilized or structural logical and electrical changes can be made without departing from the scope of what is claimed. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents. In this document the terms a and an are used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one. In this document the term or is used to refer to a nonexclusive or such that A or B includes A but not B B but not A and A and B unless otherwise indicated.

The techniques of the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented using a variety of technologies. For example the methods described herein may be implemented in software executing on a computer system or in hardware utilizing either a combination of microprocessors or other specially designed application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices or various combinations thereof. In particular the methods described herein may be implemented by a series of computer executable instructions residing on a storage medium such as a disk drive or computer readable medium. It should be noted that methods disclosed herein can be implemented by a computer e.g. a desktop computer a tablet computer a laptop computer and a server video game console handheld gaming device cellular phone smart phone smart television system and so forth.

As used herein telephone call can refer to different types of communications sessions such as various combinations of Short Message Service SMS message instant messaging IM message e mail message videotelephony voice chat web based communications a connection over a telephone network and the like . Initiation of communications sessions and or an instance of a communications session may be referred to as a call. Videotelephony can be real time audio and video communication e.g. webcam videophone videoconferencing and telepresence . Voice chat can be audible communications over a network such as the Internet e.g. Skype Yahoo Messenger AOL Instant Messenger Windows Live Messenger online video game e.g. using a Voice over IP VoIP engine and the like . A connection over a telephone network can include one or more of Plain old telephone service POTS Voice over IP VoIP mobile or cellular phone network etc. . Web based communications can include browser to browser applications for voice calling video calling peer to peer P2P file sharing and the like without the need of internal and or external plugins such as provided by an application programming interface API like Web Real Time Communication WebRTC .

As used herein telephone number and or numbers can refer to various combinations of contact identifiers. For example a contact identifier can be at least one of a telephone number personal name or full name e.g. given name middle name s surname and combinations thereof username email address screen name handle nickname URL Uniform Resource Locator URI Uniform Resource Identifier SIP URI and the like.

The present disclosure relates to a network oriented integrated and automated approach to avoid unwanted calls by exploiting the capabilities of a phone network and information from devices arrayed in and around a structure and to provide sophisticated handling of incoming calls. As used herein a structure can be a residential building such as a castle mansion house duplex townhouse apartment condominium and the like. In addition to user defined blacklists i.e. lists comprising numbers known to be associated with undesired callers and whitelists i.e. lists comprising numbers known to be associated with acceptable callers the present disclosure implements processes for enhancing and automating creation of blacklists and whitelists and for scoring the likelihood of allowance of a call from an unfamiliar but not anonymous caller. The processes for creating or enhancing the lists as well as the scoring of calls can be augmented by sensor information obtained either from dedicated sensors and or sensors embedded in other devices appliances and from state information obtained from the other devices appliances . The resulting scores may be used to provide the user with a control over calls from unfamiliar callers.

Various criteria may be used to score calls. For example call desirability may be assessed based on network statistics gathered across the entire user base of the network community whitelists and blacklists and callbacks. Furthermore machine detection may be employed to determine whether the caller is an automated system or a human. In an example embodiment customized challenge and response may be used to provide the user with an opportunity to determine whether unfamiliar callers are known to the user and whether calls from the unfamiliar callers should be put through or blocked.

Sensor and state information from sensors and appliances around the structure can be further used as input to score calls. For example desirability of calls may be different if sensors and or state allow the system to determine that the called one or more occupants of the structure is sleeping eating dinner or engaged in an activity that the user has indicated is a do not disturb activity.

The proliferation of modern home automation systems security systems and Internet of Things IoT devices can result in homes businesses and other structures being equipped with numerous network accessible sensors. Additionally other network accessible devices and or appliances even those not explicitly equipped with sensors may provide indirect information about the occupants of a structure based on state information available from such devices.

Sensors may include purpose built sensors intended specifically to provide telemetry of certain factors in or about a structure. Examples of purpose built sensors include network equipped thermometers moisture sensors hygrometers and similar equipment. These may be intended to have information that is read or interpreted by humans but often also provide programmatic mechanisms such as Application Programming Interfaces APIs that allow this information to be accessed by software.

Numerous devices referred to as appliances often incorporate sensors that may be useful for providing similar information even in the absence of purpose built sensors. WiFi network accessible programmable thermostats to control climate control systems are available. Such devices incorporate both thermometers for determining temperature and motion sensors used to determine if occupants are present and active. Alarm systems are often equipped with numerous sensors capable of providing information about motion or lack thereof of occupants of the structure indications when windows or doors are open when moisture is present etc. Alarm systems may make their information available programmatically via APIs allowing this information to be accessed for use by other applications.

There is another category of devices that may provide useful information about occupant status despite not being explicitly equipped with purpose built sensors. Many consumer devices are accessible via API and one or more states of the device can be obtained. As an example a consumer electronics device may be queried to determine if the device is powered on or when it last interacted with the consumer e.g. received input from a user . This can be used to determine if a consumer is active in which room or rooms the consumer may be and what activities they may be engaged in even if the device does not feature sensors to measure these properties directly.

Thus as a result of filtering a telephone call directed to privacy protection of the user the call may be either rejected or put through to the user. During the scoring process callers can be added to the community blacklist or whitelist or to a personal blacklist or whitelist of the person being called. If the call is put through the system may provide the user with a user interface to allow the system to add the caller to the blacklist or the whitelist to streamline handling of calls from the same caller in the future. Alternatively additions to the blacklist and whitelist may be automated based on programed rules prescribing flow of the call through the privacy protection system. Individual blacklists and whitelists may serve as resources to help determine the routing of future calls from the same callers to other users of the network. Additionally preventive actions may be performed with regard to the undesired callers such as automatically logging a complaint to an authority responsible for telephone call privacy identifying the caller as violating provisions related to the national do not call list. For the calls rejected by the system the user may have several options for treating those calls to maximize the cost to the caller for having called thereby increasing the chances that the caller will not call again and providing a measure of satisfaction to the user.

Referring now to the drawings illustrates an environment within which a system and a method for filtering a telephone call can be implemented. The environment may include a network a system for filtering a telephone call a caller and a user being an intended call recipient and having one or more user communication devices . Additionally one or more network accessible sensors and or appliances can be connected to network . These may include motion sensors or other alarm system components intelligent thermostats consumer electronic devices appliances network aware home appliances by way of non limiting example oven stove refrigerator clothes washer clothes dryer and the like heating ventilating and air conditioning HVAC units etc.

The network may include the Internet or any other network capable of communicating data between devices. Suitable networks may include or interface with any one or more of for instance a local intranet a PAN Personal Area Network a LAN Local Area Network a WAN Wide Area Network a MAN Metropolitan Area Network a virtual private network VPN a storage area network SAN a frame relay connection an Advanced Intelligent Network AIN connection a synchronous optical network SONET connection a digital T1 T3 E1 or E3 line Digital Data Service DDS connection DSL Digital Subscriber Line connection an Ethernet connection an ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network line a dial up port such as a V.90 V.34 or V.34bis analog modem connection a cable modem an ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode connection or an FDDI Fiber Distributed Data Interface or CDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface connection.

Furthermore communications may also include links to any of a variety of wireless networks including WAP Wireless Application Protocol GPRS General Packet Radio Service GSM Global System for Mobile Communication CDMA Code Division Multiple Access or TDMA Time Division Multiple Access cellular phone networks GPS Global Positioning System CDPD cellular digital packet data RIM Research in Motion Limited duplex paging network Bluetooth radio or an IEEE 802.11 based radio frequency network. The network can further include or interface with any one or more of an RS 232 serial connection an IEEE 1394 Firewire connection a Fiber Channel connection an IrDA infrared port a SCSI Small Computer Systems Interface connection a USB Universal Serial Bus connection or other wired or wireless digital or analog interface or connection mesh or Digi networking. The network may include a network of data processing nodes that are interconnected for the purpose of data communication. Furthermore the network may include a telephone network such as a voice over Internet Protocol VoIP network.

The user communication device may include a mobile phone a smartphone a tablet Personal Computer PC a laptop a PC and so forth. For the purposes of communication the user communication device may be compatible with one or more of the following network standards GSM CDMA Long Term Evolution LTE IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS 4G 5G 6G and upper Radio Frequency Identification RFID and so forth.

As shown the caller may perform a telephone call to the user communication device via the network . The system may be associated with the user communication device to filter telephone calls from unwanted callers.

In the example shown the method may commence at operation with receiving by a processor from a caller the telephone call directed to a communication device associated with an intended call recipient. The method may continue with operation at which the processor may score the telephone call based on predetermined scoring criteria. Predetermined scoring criteria may include combinations of sensor information from network accessible sensors sensors incorporated into network accessible appliances and the state of various network accessible appliances. The scoring criteria and information can be used to create a score indicative of a desirability of the telephone call.

In an example embodiment the scoring may be based on whether a caller or a caller communication device is associated with a whitelist a blacklist or a graylist. Furthermore the scoring may be based on a number of calls made to different phone numbers by the caller sequence of the calls made by the caller and call sources. The predetermined scoring criteria may involve network statistics machine detections customized challenge and response and so forth. In some embodiments the predetermined scoring criteria may be provided by the intended call recipient.

In various embodiments a predefined condition status and or state of one or more occupants of a structure is determined. In another example embodiment a network motion sensor e.g. a portion of an alarm system or incorporated into a smart thermostat may be used to determine that an occupant is believed to be home and that occupant has moved into a bedroom and become stationary indicating the occupant is asleep. In another example embodiment various combinations of timing information sensor and state information are used to extrapolate information about the status of an individual in a structure. For example if it is determined that several cooking appliances were in the on state recently and a motion sensor in the kitchen or dining room indicates activity presence the system may determine that the occupant is eating dinner.

By way of further non limiting example an audio video receiver AVR other components such as an audio video source display and the like being powered up may indicate one or more occupants is watching a movie television and the like. An AVR can receive audio and video signals from a number of audio video sources e.g. cable satellite set top box radio DVD player Blu ray Disc player video game console and the like and process them to drive loudspeakers and a display e.g. television video monitor video projector and the like . In at least some of the above examples the scoring criteria may adjust the score to reflect a status of one or more occupants e.g. sleeping eating dinner watching a movie or television and the like .

By way of additional non limiting example a special mode can include a guest mode when an occupant called party is entertaining a guest. In some embodiments sensor data from transducers e.g. microphone in at least one of a cordless telephone computer video game console handheld gaming device cellular phone smart phone smart television system security system and the like is processed to detect unfamiliar voices e.g. voice recognition recognizes the occupant called party and determines there is a voice present in proximity e.g. in the same room section of the structure to at least one occupant that is not recognized . For example the voice recognition system is trained to recognize identify voices associated with the occupants. The scoring criteria may adjust the score to reflect that guests or other individuals that are not the occupants are present in the structure and that at least one occupant i.e. occupant s in the same room section of the structure as the unrecognized voice is unavailable.

At operation the processor may compare the created score to a predetermined threshold score. In an example embodiment the predetermined threshold score may be selected by the intended call recipient or set by the processor. The method may continue to operation at which based on the comparison the processor may selectively classify the telephone call as an unwanted telephone call.

At operation the processor may selectively reject the unwanted telephone call. In an example embodiment the telephone call may be automatically rejected if a caller ID associated with the telephone call is blocked or the call is anonymous. In an example embodiment the method may optionally comprise based on the score putting the telephone call through to the communication device. Alternatively or additionally the telephone call may be forwarded to a voicemail system to an alternate party or number or in some other way handled in a way that does not disturb the called party. As described above some embodiments of a telephone include various combinations of Short Message Service SMS message instant messaging IM message email message videotelephony voice chat web based communications a connection over a telephone network and the like.

Furthermore based on the score the caller or a caller communication device may be added to a whitelist or a blacklist. In an example embodiment the intended call recipient may manually add the caller or caller communication device to the blacklist or the whitelist. Whitelists and blacklists may be global or may be peculiar to a certain state indicated by the sensors and or state of appliances. For example a call from a parent spouse child or close friend may be added to a global whitelist to allow access at all times. A call from a work colleague may be added to a specific sleeping or eating dinner blacklist while not added to the global blacklist allowing the call to be received during a more convenient time.

In an example embodiment the method may optionally comprise providing screening of the telephone call by the intended call recipient to allow the intended call recipient to manually reject or allow the telephone call. Furthermore the intended call recipient may be allowed to grade the telephone call or effectiveness of the screening after the telephone call is completed.

In an example embodiment the method may comprise automatically requiring a call back number to complete the telephone call. In an example embodiment the method may optionally comprise providing a test to establish whether the caller is a human. The method is further illustrated in detail in showing a method for handling of an inbound call. The inbound call may include a call from a caller to an intended call recipient before being put through to the intended call recipient and before being rejected.

In a telephone network such as a VoIP network at step it may be determined that the caller ID associated with the inbound call is blocked or anonymous. In such a case at step it may be ascertained whether the intended call recipient has enabled anonymous call reject ACR . In case the intended call recipient has enabled ACR the call may be rejected at step . If on the other hand the intended call recipient has not enabled ACR it may be ascertained at step whether further screening namely a callback option is enabled by the intended call recipient. If the callback option is not enabled for the inbound anonymous calls the call may be completed at step . In some example embodiments if it is determined at step that the callback option is not enabled for the inbound anonymous calls method may proceed to step described below instead of completing the call directly.

If further screening is desired the call flow may be passed to step where a callback may be attempted. In this case the call may be answered and the caller asked by an interactive voice response system IVR to provide a number at which the caller may be reached. Typically undesired callers such as telemarketers may not have direct phone numbers at which they can be reached. Therefore requiring the callback may help in overcoming spam attempts. In case of receiving the number at which the caller may be reached the current call may be ended and the process may proceed with step described below.

It is important to note that for telephone networks in general and VoIP networks in particular functions such as callbacks and IVRs can be implemented without tying up the phone line of the intended call recipient or inhibiting the use of the service by the intended call recipient. From the perspective of the intended call recipient a system for filtering a telephone call may operate in the background and in general may be invisible to the intended call recipient.

For an inbound call where a caller ID may be available or where a callback number has been obtained the whitelist of previously identified acceptable callers of the intended call recipient may be queried at step . If the caller is on the whitelist the call may be completed at step . If the caller is not on the white list the blacklist associated with the intended call recipient may be queried at step . A call from the callers on the blacklist may be rejected at step . For the callers who are neither on the whitelist nor on the blacklist the desirability of the caller can be established in step . In step the call may be answered by the automated system with a greeting such as Who is calling The system purposely may have a short greeting asking a question so that it may measure the pause between the connecting of the call and the first words of the caller. If the pause is three seconds or longer the call may be connected by an auto dialer and the telemarketer may never hear the greeting from the system. If the caller responds with Hello it may be an indication that he did not hear the question because of the time lag introduced by the auto dialer. This may be the first measurement to be considered in grading the desirability of the caller. The desirability of the caller may be scored and the resulting score may be compared with a predetermined threshold score at step . The predetermined threshold score may be defined by the system or selected by the intended call recipient. If the desirability score of the caller is higher than the predetermined threshold score the caller may be classified as a desirable caller and the call may be put through to the intended call recipient at step . See and discussion below for further details of the desirability rating. 

At step if the desirability score of the caller is below the predetermined threshold score the intended call recipient may configure the system to provide further assurances that the call is worth taking by attempting to determine whether the caller is human and not an automated system. In an example embodiment the determining whether the caller is human may be based on the IVR asking the caller to add two numbers. The score indicative of whether the caller is human may range from 1 100. This score may be used at step to determine whether to reject the call. If the score associated with the caller fails to exceed the threshold score value of step the call may be rejected and the caller may be added to the blacklist at step .

If the caller is determined to be human the system may be configured to issue a customized challenge response at step to determine whether the caller should be allowed to complete the call. The customized challenge response employing the IVR and call recording mechanism may be used to determine whether the caller is an acquaintance of the intended call recipient or to classify the caller as an undesired caller such as a collection agent or a solicitor. The interactions of the challenge response may be recorded for future use in documenting the violation by the caller of the rules related to the national do not call list. A customized challenge response may comprise the IVR asking a question or series of questions of a personal nature that could only be answered by an acquaintance of the intended call recipient. The answer may require personal knowledge of the intended call recipient that an undesired caller such as a telemarketer may not possess. A small number of such questions could determine familiarity and therefore legitimacy of the caller at step . A call from an illegitimate caller may be rejected at step while a call from a legitimate caller may be put through to the intended call recipient at step . With proper whitelist handling only one pass through the question and answer process may be required for any legitimate caller. For subsequent calls from that caller the whitelist may identify the caller as legitimate and the call may be connected without delay.

At step once the call has been completed via any path through step the intended call recipient may be given an opportunity through an intended call recipient interface to grade effectiveness of the screening. This feedback may allow the intended call recipient to put the caller onto a personal whitelist or blacklist in order to streamline processing of future calls from that caller.

Embodiments of method are further illustrated in including method for handling an inbound call using combinations of sensor information and state information about network appliances. A user not shown in may define one or more user modes or states e.g. sleeping eating consuming media such as watching television movie and the like pertaining to at least one of the structure occupant or a called party such that the mode s state s can be determined from combinations of the sensor data e.g. standalone sensors and or sensors from network connected appliances and state information from network appliances. The sensor data and or state information can be referred to as telemetry. There may be multiple criteria that cause a mode state to be entered determined. For example the eating dinner mode may be indicated if the oven has been on in the last 20 minutes or if the breakfast room indicates motion or if the dining room indicates motion. The user may define multiple modes states each with one or more criteria for entering that mode state and each with its own mode state specified blacklist and predetermined threshold adjustment factor.

Method discussed above in relation to may be in whole or in part performed at step . In some embodiments when the call would otherwise have been accepted completed at states or additional testing can be performed for example beginning at step . When the call would have been rejected in process it can be rejected at step by applying a rejected call treatment. In some embodiments method may be but need not be a separate process from method . For example method may be integrated into process . Method is discussed in the context of a separate process purely for illustrative purposes.

At step the call can be checked to see if it is on the global whitelist. If so sensor and state information may not be used and the call may be accepted and completed at step . In some embodiments there is no check if the caller is on a global blacklist since only accepted calls may be passed from process to process for further screening.

At step criteria for entering a special mode e.g. sleeping eating etc. can be loaded in order to determine when sensor data indicates entering the special mode. At step the sensor s and state data from the various appliances are obtained so that a test can be performed at step to determine if a special mode is indicated and the call should be checked again.

If the sensor and or state data do not support a determination that the structure occupant called party is in the special mode at step then a check can be performed to see if there are additional special modes that can be checked at step . If there are additional modes method can repeat steps such that the new mode is loaded and sensors and or state are checked to see if they indicate the structure occupant called party are in the new mode. If no more modes are defined the call can be completed at step .

While provided for illustrative purposes in various embodiments steps and are not performed during call screening. For example another process may continuously or at certain intervals monitor the sensors and or state and determine which mode s the structure occupant called party is in. In that case steps and may check if that mode is active e.g. entered .

When a special mode is indicated at step control to check the call based on being in that state can begin at step . The caller can be checked against a special mode specific blacklist at step . When the caller is indicated as blacklisted in this state rejected call treatment can be applied at step .

When the caller does not appear on a mode specific blacklist for this mode at step the call desirability score or tests may be adjusted by a factor. In some embodiments the adjustment varies depending on the mode. Sleep for example may be considered less interruptible than an eating dinner or watching movie state. These adjusted scores or tests can be used at step to determine if the call is rejected. A simple modification of the score multiplier and a simple test are indicated by way of example and not limitation. In various embodiments multiple tests may be performed with different score modifiers. For example as shown in a desirability threshold a human threshold and a challenge response threshold each could be modified in a different way by the mode specific adjustment. Additionally or alternatively at least one of the score the criteria and the tests applied could be changed.

When the call is still deemed desirable at step control can proceed to step to determine if additional mode specific tests are indicated before rejecting the call. When the call is determined to be undesirable call rejection treatment can be applied at step .

In an example embodiment the processor may be configured based on the score to selectively classify the telephone call as a wanted telephone call and put the telephone call through to the communication device of the intended call recipient. In an example embodiment the processor may be configured based on the score to add the caller or a caller communication device to the whitelist or the blacklist.

In an example embodiment the processor may be configured to automatically require a call back number to complete the telephone call. If the caller is unable to provide a call back number the processor may be configured to reject the call.

In an example embodiment the processor may be configured to provide a test to establish whether the caller is a human. If the caller passes the test the processor may put the call through to the intended call recipient. If the caller fails the test the processor may reject the call.

In a further example embodiment the processor may be further configured to provide screening of the telephone call by the intended call recipient to allow the intended call recipient to manually reject or allow the telephone call. The intended call recipient may be further allowed to grade the telephone call or effectiveness of the screening after the telephone call is completed.

The system may comprise a memory unit configured to store data associated with the predetermined scoring criteria the predetermined threshold score a whitelist a blacklist and so forth.

The list of options may further include numbers calling special phone numbers to which the user may give priority. For example a user may have a virtual number that the user may provide to family or acquaintances known to be legitimate. The calls to this number may bypass the screening process entirely even for unfamiliar or blocked calling numbers.

In an example embodiment the community blacklist may include numbers blacklisted in multiple blacklists of individual users numbers found in global blacklists published by third party or public sources and numbers that have previously called honeypot numbers. The honeypot numbers may be designed by the network operator to entice telemarketers and other undesired callers to call and engage in a manner which allows their intent to be revealed. For example certain unassigned phone numbers may be connected to an IVR system which pretends to be a live caller asking a question. The IVR may then measure the pause before the caller responds which may often be longer than usual when an automated telemarketing system connects the call. If the response detected does not begin with a predetermined phrase then it may be concluded that the caller may not have heard the question due to the lag typically seen in automated dialers between call connection and an agent joining the call. This may mean that the caller may be an undesired caller such as a telemarketer and that the number should be blacklisted. Numbers that are known to have been out of service for a long time are also effective honeypots to attract undesired callers as it can be reasonably guessed that anyone calling a number that has been out of service for a long time may be either an undesired caller or has misdialed.

The list of options may further include previously blocked numbers i.e. numbers that have been previously blocked by the user . Furthermore the list of options may include user rule numbers i.e. numbers from particular geographic locations area codes or number wildcards for which the user has created a rule that causes them to be blocked .

Furthermore the list of options may include numbers calling special phone numbers that the user may provide only to persons from whom the user may never want to receive calls or whose calls would be sent directly to voicemail and so forth. For example such a number may be provided to a person with whom the user may not wish to continue a relationship.

The factors influencing the graylist score may further include a call locality factor . If a caller calls numbers in sequence that may be an indication of a junk caller. In an example embodiment the factor may be an integer indicating the length of the longest run of sequentially dialed numbers in the last 30 days. In an example embodiment this graylist component score may be set to 20 times this number. Accordingly a caller who dialed five phone numbers in sequence may get a graylist score of 100 for just this component and the caller may be almost certainly a junk caller and therefore an undesired caller.

A blacklist prevalence factor may mean that the caller has been blacklisted by many other users which may be an indication of a junk caller. In an example embodiment this graylist component score may be set to be 10 times an integer indicating the number of users in the network who have this number in their personal blacklist.

A whitelist prevalence factor may mean that a caller is found on many user whitelists or has been called frequently by users on the network which may be an indication that the call is valuable and should not be blocked. In an example embodiment this graylist component score may be set to be 10 times an integer indicating the number of users in the network who have this number in their personal whitelist.

A call source type factor may include calls from mobile numbers that are unlikely to be from junk callers as most telemarketers operate from fixed locations using landlines instead of mobile phones. In an example embodiment this graylist component score may be set to be 50 if the call is coming from a mobile phone number.

Mode adjust factor may be used to alter the graylist score based on the mode detected by sensors and or state of appliances. In some embodiments the alteration is at least one of a pure scaling factor change in the weighting of other factors and other change to the graylist score using the mode detected. In various embodiments mode adjust factor does not alter the calculated score but instead alters a threshold used to determines when a call is accepted or not e.g. rejected .

According to an example embodiment each of the factors above may be weighted and added or subtracted as they apply to a particular caller. The resulting score may be normalized in a range from 0 to 100 and then passed to the rest of the screening process.

The handling options may include a dial tone option so that the rejected calls are terminated with a dial tone. Furthermore in case of a voicemail option rejected calls may be passed to voicemail. The voicemail may be flagged so that the user does not waste time listening to the message. Alternatively the user may want to listen to such messages to make sure that the settings are not inadvertently blocking calls from legitimate users.

An out of service tone option may be used according to which rejected calls may be given the out of service tone which may cause some automatic dialing systems to remove the number from their phone number list. This call treatment may prevent the undesired caller from wasting resources on a call that will never get through to an intended user. Furthermore according to an example embodiment of option there is no need to ring the phone for screened calls.

Furthermore an IVR Turing test option may be used to direct rejected calls to an IVR that simulates human conversation to prolong the time wasted by the undesired caller. For example the IVR may answer the phone by asking the caller to wait for several minutes followed by a long pause. This may be followed by a Turing test wherein the challenge of the undesired caller may be to determine whether the IVR is a human or a machine while the purpose of the IVR challenge may be to prolong the conversation for as long as possible. Various personalities may be selected by the user for their Turing tests for example a confused person whose conversation wanders a drug addict who tries to take a message and forgets what he is doing and starts over a dog owner who excuses himself to try to quiet the hound with barking in the background and so forth.

A variation of the Turing Test call treatment may be an IVR Evidence in which a further objective of the IVR may be to isolate the name of the caller and to determine whether the caller is covered by the constraints of the national do not call list. If the caller is covered then the system may record the call as evidence for a complaint to an authority for the violation.

Selection of which rejected call treatment to use may be based on what factors of logic block caused the call to be rejected in the first place. For example if the call is rejected because the caller is found on a user generated global blacklist or user generated mode specific blacklist implying indicating that the user is quite confident that the call is from an undesired caller then a more aggressive call treatment such as the Turing test may be employed. If however the call is rejected because of a marginal score from the graylist scoring engine or a marginal mode specific graylist score from the graylist scoring engine with mode specific adjustment factors applied to either the score or the threshold then the call may be sent to voicemail in case a mistake was made in the scoring. Selection may be also based on whether the caller is found on a user generated whitelist . Selecting a call treatment may be as simple as directing the call to a server such as a voicemail server or an announcement server that connects the call and implements the desired treatment. Such servers are commonly employed using FreeSwitch or Asterisk soft switches.

The example computer system includes a processor or multiple processors e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system may also include an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a non transitory computer readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. instructions embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processors during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory and the processors may also constitute machine readable media.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP .

In some embodiments the computer system may be implemented as a cloud based computing environment such as a virtual machine operating within a computing cloud. In other embodiments the computer system may itself include a cloud based computing environment where the functionalities of the computer system are executed in a distributed fashion. Thus the computer system when configured as a computing cloud may include pluralities of computing devices in various forms as will be described in greater detail below.

In general a cloud based computing environment is a resource that typically combines the computational power of a large grouping of processors such as within web servers and or that combines the storage capacity of a large grouping of computer memories or storage devices. Systems that provide cloud based resources may be utilized exclusively by their owners or such systems may be accessible to outside users who deploy applications within the computing infrastructure to obtain the benefit of large computational or storage resources.

The cloud may be formed for example by a network of web servers that comprise a plurality of computing devices with each server or at least a plurality thereof providing processor and or storage resources. These servers may manage workloads provided by multiple users e.g. cloud resource customers or other users . Typically each user places workload demands upon the cloud that vary in real time sometimes dramatically. The nature and extent of these variations typically depends on the type of business associated with the user.

It is noteworthy that any hardware platform suitable for performing the processing described herein is suitable for use with the technology. The terms computer readable storage medium and computer readable storage media as used herein refer to any medium or media that participate in providing instructions to a CPU for execution. Such media can take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as a fixed disk. Volatile media include dynamic memory such as system RAM. Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics among others including the wires that comprise one embodiment of a bus. Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM disk digital video disk DVD any other optical medium any other physical medium with patterns of marks or holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM an EEPROM a FLASHEPROM any other memory chip or data exchange adapter a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to a CPU for execution. A bus carries the data to system RAM from which a CPU retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by system RAM can optionally be stored on a fixed disk either before or after execution by a CPU.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present technology may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present technology has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Exemplary embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the present technology and its practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

Aspects of the present technology are described above with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

Thus methods and systems for filtering telephone calls have been disclosed. Although embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes can be made to these example embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the present application. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

