---

title: Method and system for indexing, relating and managing information about entities
abstract: Systems and methods for use in association with a master entity index system may allow data records to be grouped together into various entities, where each of the entities may represent a logical or physical item. These entities may also be associated with one another in a manner such that relationships between entities may likewise be represented. In one embodiment, an interface may be provided for use in conjunction with the master entity index system such that these various entities and relationships may be better managed, manipulated or visualized. This interface may allow a user to search for or otherwise obtain an entity, where a representation of this entity and one or more associated entities may be presented to the user along with representations of the relationships between these entities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09600563&OS=09600563&RS=09600563
owner: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
number: 09600563
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160129
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 025 294 entitled Method and System for Indexing Relating and Managing Information About Entities and filed Feb. 11 2011 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 904 750 entitled Indexing Relating and Managing Information About Entities and filed Sep. 28 2007 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

This invention relates generally to a system and method for associating data records within one or more databases and in particular to a system and method for identifying data records in one or more databases that may contain information about the same entity associating those data records together for easier access to information about the entity associating related entities for easier access to information about relationships between entities and interfaces for the management manipulation and viewing of such data records entities and relationships.

Data about almost anything such as people products or parts may be stored in digital format in a data source such as a computer database. These computer databases permit this data to be accessed rapidly and may permit the data to be cross referenced to other relevant pieces of data within the database. The databases also permit a person to query the database to find data records pertaining to a particular search criteria. A database however has several limitations which may limit the ability of a person to find the correct data within the database. The actual data within the database is only as accurate as the person who entered the data. Thus a mistake in the entry of the data into the database may cause a person looking for data in the database to miss some relevant data because for example a last name of a person was misspelled. Another kind of mistake involves creating a new separate record for something that already has a record within the database e.g. duplicative records where the data records may have one or more different attributes . Furthermore several data records may contain information about the same thing but for example the names or identification numbers contained in the two data records may be different so that the database may not be able to associate the two data records with one another.

For a business that operates one or more databases containing a large number of data records the ability to locate relevant information about a particular thing within and among the respective databases is very important but not easily obtained. Once again any mistake in the entry of data including without limitation the creation of more than one data record for the same thing at any information source may cause relevant data to be missed when the data for a particular thing is searched for in the database. In addition in cases involving multiple information sources each of the information sources may have slightly different data syntax or formats which may further complicate the process of finding data among the databases. An example of the need to properly identify something referred to in a data record and to locate all relevant data records in the health care field is one in which a number of different hospitals associated with a particular health care organization may have one or more information sources containing information about their patient and a health care organization collects the information from each of the hospitals into a master database. It may be desired to link data records from all of the information sources pertaining to the same patient to enable searching for information for a particular patient in all of the hospital records.

There are several problems which limit the ability to find relevant data in such a database. Multiple data records may exist for a particular thing as a result of separate data records received from one or more information sources which leads to a problem that can be called data fragmentation. In the case of data fragmentation a query of the master database may not retrieve all of the relevant information about a particular thing. In addition as described above the query may miss some relevant information due to a typographical error made during data entry which leads to the problem of data inaccessibility. In addition a large database may contain data records which appear to be identical such as a plurality of records for people with the last name of Smith and the first name of Jim. A query of the database will retrieve all of these data records and a person who made the query to the database may often choose at random one of the data records retrieved which may be the wrong data record. The person may not often typically attempt to determine which of the records is appropriate. This can lead to the wrong data records being retrieved even when the correct data records are available. These problems limit the ability to locate desired information for about a particular thing within the database.

For a variety of reasons it may also be desirable to associate various data records within these various information sources. For example to reduce the amount of data that must be reviewed and prevent the user from picking the wrong data record it is also desirable to identify and associate data records from the various information sources that may contain information about the same thing. There are conventional systems that locate duplicate data records within a database and delete those duplicate data records but these systems only locate data records which are identical to each other. Thus these conventional systems cannot determine if two data records with for example slightly different last names nevertheless contain information about the same entity. In addition these conventional systems do not attempt to index data records from a plurality of different information sources locate data records within the one or more information sources containing information about the same entity and link those data records together.

Additionally it may be desired to associate or group data records within various information sources where the various data records pertain to a particular logical or physical thing. For example different family members may each have distinct data records yet it may still be desirable to associate these various distinct data records with one another such that the grouping of data records represents a household. Another example may be the association of various distinct data records together to represent a division within a business etc. In other words it may be desired to group distinct data records together according to almost any logical pr physical group or thing.

Similarly data records in an information source may relate to one another in a variety of manners and it may be desired to associate data records within multiple information sources in a manner which expresses relationships between those things on which the data records contain information. For example one data record may comprise information on an employer while another data record may comprise information on an employee it may thus be desired to associate the two data records in a manner which expresses this employer employee relationship. Similarly one data record may comprise information on a parent corporation and another data record may comprise information on a subsidiary corporation. Here as well it may be desired to associate the two data records in a manner which expresses this parent subsidiary relationship between the corporations on which the data records comprise information.

Thus as can be seen from the above discussion in many cases it may be desired to associate data records for a variety of reasons and purposes to allow a user to better manipulate organize filter or otherwise process data in a variety of data sources. As may also be discerned the manipulation organization or processing or viewing of such a large amount of data may be somewhat problematic especially once data records have been grouped to represent various things and the relationships between these various things have also been represented. Thus not only is it desired to be able to associate these data records in an arbitrarily complex manner to represent various things and the relationships amongst these things but it is also desired to have an interface which allows the management manipulation or visualization of such data records and associations.

Systems and methods for use in association with a master entity index system which allows data records to be process updated stored or managed are presented herein. More specifically embodiments of such a master entity index system may allow data records to be grouped together into various entities where each of the entities may represent a logical or physical item. These entities may also be associated with one another in a manner such that relationships between entities may likewise be represented.

Particularly in one embodiment a set of entity types representing logical or physical items may be defined and data records algorithmically associated with one or more entities corresponding to an entity type. One or more relationship types may also be defined such that data records may be related to one or more entities and entities themselves related to one or more other entities using these relationships. In this manner data records from a variety of data sources may be associated with entities representing a variety of real world or application specific etc. phenomena and relationships between these entities established and tracked.

Additionally in one embodiment an interface may be provided for use in conjunction with such a master entity index system to facilitate management manipulation or visualization of these various entities and relationships. This interface may allow a user to search for or otherwise obtain an entity where a representation of this entity and one or more associated entities may be presented to the user along with representations of the relationships between these entities. Such an interface may allow a user to obtain a wide variety of information or accomplish a whole host of tasks with respect to the entities and relationships maintained by the master entity index system as will be explained in more detail below.

Embodiments of the present invention may provide the technical advantages that data record from various data sources may be associated with a variety of types entities resulting in the representation of many different types of logical or physical phenomena the relationships between these phenomena and the disambiguation of various data records which may be received from the variety of different sources with respect to these various entities. Furthermore a current state e.g. of the entities and relationships of the master entity index system or a portion thereof may be loaded and represented graphically for a user such that a user can manipulate the graphical representation to change the underlying state of the master entity index system.

Embodiments of the invention disclosed herein can be implemented by programming one or more computer systems or devices with computer executable instructions embodied in a computer readable medium. When executed by a processor these instructions operate to cause these computer systems and devices to perform one or more functions particular to embodiments of the invention disclosed herein. Programming techniques computer languages devices and computer readable media necessary to accomplish this are known in the art and thus will not be further described herein.

These and other aspects of the invention will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. The following description while indicating various embodiments of the invention and numerous specific details thereof is given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many substitutions modifications additions or rearrangements may be made within the scope of the invention and the invention includes all such substitutions modifications additions or rearrangements.

The invention and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the nonlimiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known starting materials processing techniques components and equipment are omitted so as not to unnecessarily obscure the invention in detail. Skilled artisans should understand however that the detailed description and the specific examples while disclosing preferred embodiments of the invention are given by way of illustration only and not by way of limitation. Various substitutions modifications additions or rearrangements within the scope of the underlying inventive concept s will become apparent to those skilled in the art after reading this disclosure.

Reference is now made in detail to the exemplary embodiments of the invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts elements . In one embodiment the system and method of the invention is particularly applicable to a system and method for indexing information from multiple information sources pertaining to organizations. It is in this context that certain embodiments will be described. It will be appreciated however that the systems and methods in accordance with embodiments of the invention have utility in a large number of applications that involve identifying associating manipulating or otherwise managing data records in a variety of contexts.

In reviewing embodiments of the systems and methods of the present invention it may first be helpful to go over examples of embodiments of systems and methods for associating and indexing data records which may be utilized in conjunction with embodiments of the present invention such as those described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 991 758 entitled System and Method for Indexing Information about Entities from Different Information Sources issued Nov. 23 1999 by inventor Scott Ellard and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 656 111 entitled Method and System for Indexing Information about Entities with Respect to Hierarchies filed Jan. 22 2007 by inventors Scott Ellard et at both of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

After reviewing the discussions presented herein and the above reference patent it will be apparent that there may be a variety reasons why it is desired to associate index or otherwise manage data records from a variety of sources. To that end attention is now directed to systems and methods for use in association with a master entity index system which allows data records to be process updated stored or managed. More specifically embodiments of such a master entity index system may allow data records to be grouped together into various entities where each of the entities may represent a logical or physical item. These entities may also be associated with one another in a manner such that relationships between entities may likewise be represented.

Particularly in one embodiment a set of entity types representing logical or physical items may be defined and data records algorithmically associated with one or more entities corresponding to an entity type. One or more relationship types may also be defined such that data records may be related to one or more entities and entities themselves related to one or more other entities using these relationships. In this manner data records from a variety of data sources may be associated with entities representing a variety of real world or application specific etc. phenomena and relationships between these entities established and tracked.

Additionally an interface may be provided for use in conjunction with an embodiment of a master entity index system such that these various entities and relationships may be better managed manipulated or visualized. In one embodiment this interface may allow a user to search for or otherwise obtain an entity where a representation of this entity and one or more associated entities may be presented to the user along with representations of the relationships between these entities. Such an interface may allow a user to obtain a wide variety of information or accomplish a whole host of tasks with respect to the entities and relationships maintained by the master entity index system as will be explained in more detail below.

Turing now to a block diagram illustrating one embodiment of a master entity index system is presented. The master entity index system may include a master entity index MEI that processes updates and stores data records about one or more entities from one or more information sources and responds to commands or queries from a plurality of operators where the operators may be either users or information systems. The MEI may operate with data records from a single information source or as shown data records from one or more information sources. It may be useful here to briefly illustrate the examples of such data records. The MEI may be a computer system with a central processing unit executing a software application e.g. computer executable instructions that performs at least a portion of the functionality of the MEI.

Reading thus far it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that both the data sources and the operators may be affiliated with similar or different organizations or owners. For example data source may be affiliated with a hospital in Los Angeles run by one health care network while data source may be affiliated with a hospital in New York run by another health care network. Consequently the data records of each of data sources may be of a different format or may pertain to different types of items.

This may be illustrated more clearly with reference to depicting two embodiments of example data records. Each of these data records has a set of fields corresponding to a set of attributes of each of the data records. For example one of the attributes of each of the records may be a name another attribute may be a social security number etc. It will be apparent that an attribute may comprise multiple fields of a data record for example the name attribute of data record may comprise fields and the last middle and first name fields respectively.

Notice however that each of the records may have a different format for example data record may have a filed for the attribute of driver s license number while data record may have no such field. Similarly like attributes may have different formats as well. For example name fields in record may accept the entry of a full first last and middle name while name fields in record may be designed for full first and last names but only allow the entry of a middle initial.

As may be imagined discrepancies such as this may be problematic when comparing two or more data records e.g. attributes of data records to identify data records which should be linked. The name James T. Kirk is not the same as James Tiberius Kirk . Similarly a typo or mistake in entering data for a data record may also affect the comparison of data records e.g. comparing the name James T. Kirk with Kames T. Kirk where Kames resulted from a typo in entering the name James . Exacerbating the data management issues which may arise with respect to data sources in many cases data sources may comprise data records on different items altogether. For example data sources and may comprise data records pertaining to patients in a health care organization while data source may comprise data records pertaining to medical supply inventories.

It may be desired therefore not only to associate index and manage data records which pertain to the same physical or logical entity but also to manage data records that pertain to distinct logical or physical entities in conjunction with one another under the rubric of another type of entity. For example data sources may comprise data records which pertain to different people. Some of these people may however belong to the same family or household. Therefore even though data sources comprise data records corresponding to a particular type of entity e.g. a person entity it may be desirable to associate or manage distinct records within the data sources in conjunction with one another under another type of entity e.g. a household entity .

From the above description it will be apparent therefore that the entities with which MEI associates data records in data sources may correspond exactly to the entities on which data records in data sources comprise data or may be an arbitrarily complex representation of any other real world logical or physical phenomena or item with which it is desired to associate or group these data records. Consequently the entities tracked using the MEI may include almost any desired entity the definition of which will be explained in more detail below.

Returning to as shown the MEI may receive data records from the information sources as well as write corrected data back into the information sources. The corrected data communicated to the information sources may include information that was correct but has changed information about fixing information in a data record or information about links between data records. In addition one of the users may transmit a query or other information to the MEI and receive a response back from the MEI. The one or more information sources may be for example different databases that possibly have data records about the same entities. For example in the health care field each information source may be associated with a particular hospital in the health care organization and the health care organization may use the master entity index system to relate the data records within the plurality of hospitals so that a data record for a patient in Los Angeles may be located when that same patient is on vacation and enters a hospital in New York. The MEI of the master entity index system may be located at a central location and the information sources and users may be located remotely from the MEI and may be connected to the MEI by for example a communications link such as the Internet. The MEI the one or more information sources and the plurality of users may also be connected together by another type of communications link such as a wide area network.

In particular the MEI may provide an application programming interface API such that various functionality of the MEI may be accessed or utilized through this API. In one embodiment one or more interfaces may be implemented in conjunction with the computers of one or more users such that these interfaces may be used by a user to query configure or otherwise interact or perform operations associated with the MEI through the API provided by the MEI. These interfaces may for example include a graphical user interface GUI a command line interface or one or more web pages which may be accessed through a web browser. These web pages may for example be in HTML or XHTML format and may provide navigation to other web pages via hypertext links. These web pages may be retrieved by a user e.g. using Hypertext Transfer Protocol or HTTP from a local computer or from a remote web server where the server may restrict access only to a private network e.g. a corporate intranet or it may publish pages on the World Wide Web. Embodiments of interfaces such as these will be discussed in more detail subsequently while embodiments of such an API for use with such interfaces may be better understood with reference to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 900 769 entitled Implementation Defined Segments for Relational Database Systems by Scott Ellard et al filed on Sep. 13 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 356 009 fully incorporated herein by reference.

The MEI may in addition have its own database that stores the complete data records in the MEI but the MEI may also only contain sufficient data to identify a data record e.g. an address in a particular information source or any portion of the data fields that comprise a complete data record so that the MEI retrieves the entire data record from an information source when needed. The MEI may link data records together containing information about an entity utilizing an entity identifier or associative database as described below separate from the actual data record. Thus the MEI may maintain links between data records in one or more information sources but does not necessarily maintain a single uniform data record for an entity. The MEI may however maintain one or more attribute values to be utilized in association with an entity. These values may be referred to as the entity most current attributes EMCA and may be values for one or more attributes which may for example be attribute values corresponding to one or more data records associated with the entity where attribute values may be selected based upon a priority associated with the data records based upon the information source comprising the data record.

Moving now to a block diagram illustrating one particular embodiment of a master entity index system is depicted. In this example the master entity index system may include a master entity index and a data store . For clarity the one or more information sources and the multiple users are not shown but are connected to the master entity index as previously described in conjunction with . The data store may include an entity database one or more control databases and an exception occurrence database. The entity database may store the data from the data records as specified above from the one or more information sources and may separately store links between one or more data records when those data records contain information about the same entity and links. The relationship database may store associations established between one or more entities in the entity database where these entities have been associated based upon a corresponding relationship e.g. as will be discussed in more detail alter . The MEI may process the data records from the one or more information sources and associate records that contain information about the same entity and generate the links between the separate data records when the data records contain information about the same entity. Furthermore the MEI may allow users to establish relationships between theses entities based upon a set of defined relationship types.

As data records from the information sources are fed into the MEI the MEI may attempt to match the incoming data record to one or more data records already located in the MEI database according to a matching algorithm configured in association with each entity type these matching methods are set forth in more detail in U.S. Pat. No. 5 991 758 . If an incoming data record matches an existing data record according to a matching algorithm corresponding to a particular entity type a link between the incoming data record and the matching data record may be generated such that both the incoming data record and the existing data record are associated with the same entity of that entity type. If the incoming data record does not match any of the existing data records in the MEI according to a particular matching algorithm corresponding to a particular entity type a new entity identifier corresponding to that entity type may be generated and associated with the incoming data record. In both cases the incoming data record may be stored in the MEI. As additional data records are received from the information sources these data records are matched to existing data records e.g. and thus entities and the MEI database of data records is increased.

The query unit permits a user of the master entity index system to query the MEI about information in the data records or information in the control databases of the MEI and the MEI will return a response to the query including any relevant data records or information. The configuration unit may allow a user or administrator to configure various portions of MEI including without limitations the types of entities relationships algorithms or threshold values utilized by MEI. While the various functionality of each of these units will be explained in more detail below it should be noted that the functionality described with respect to each of the units is exemplary only and more or less functionality may be implemented in conjunction with certain embodiments. Furthermore this functionality need not be separated into multiple units and any desired functionality may be incorporated into a single unit or multiple units according to the embodiment desired. Similarly as discussed above one or more interfaces may be utilized in conjunction with the MEI these interfaces may allow access to all or a portion of the functionality of these units where one interface may be used for all units each unit may have its own interface or some combination depending on the embodiment desired.

Now the data store of the master entity index system will be described in more detail. The data store may include an entity database a relationship database and one or more control databases or exception occurrence databases as described in more detail in U.S. Pat. No. 5 991 758. The entity database may comprise entity identifiers each entity identifier associated with one or more associated data records and corresponding to a particular entity type. Thus entity identifiers may associate or link those data records which reference the same entity. In this example the data records are represented as an alphabetic identifier and the entity identifier is shown as the base part followed by a period followed by a version number followed by a period and an entity type. For example 100.1.person indicates an entity identifier with 100 as the base part and 1 as the version number corresponds to the person entity type.

The relationship database may similarly comprise relationship identifiers each relationship identifier associated with one or more associated entities and corresponding to a particular relationship type. Thus relationship identifiers may denote a relationship of the corresponding relationship type between the associated entities. In this example the entities are represented with their entity identifiers and the relationship identifier is shown as a base number followed by a period followed by a relationship type. For example 200.owns 100.1 101.1 indicates a relationship identifier of 200 corresponds to the relationship type owns and designates a relationship of this type between the entities represented by entity identifiers 100.1 and 101.1.

These entity types and relationship types may better understood with respect to which depict respectively embodiments of methodologies for defining a entity type and a relationship type in conjunction with the configuration of the MEI. Turning first to an embodiment of a method for the definition of an entity type is depicted. When a user wishes to create an entity type in conjunction with MEI the user may first define a member type. This member type definition may delineate the attributes of a type of data record which may be found in one or more of data sources and which it may be desired to store or otherwise reference in the data record database of the MEI. The definition of a member type may comprise therefore comprise assigning the member type a name at step and defining the attributes of the member type at step . Each of these attributes is in turn given a name a code which may be used to refer to the attribute in conjunction with other functionality of MEI and a type of the attribute. A composite view defining how and which attributes of the member type are to be viewed when a member data record of this type is accessed may then be defined at step .

At step a data source may be specified for data records of the member type. More specifically it may be the case that attributes associated with a particular member type may be stored in multiple data sources thus in one embodiment it may be possible to associate a particular data source with each attribute of the member type. After the member type is defined then at step an entity type may be defined based upon the defined member type. The definition of the entity type may denote that a user wishes to define an entity type based upon the member type. In other words the entity type may represent a particular type of association of those member data records and it may thus be desired by a user to match index link or otherwise associate data records of that member type as entities according to that entity type. In association with this entity type then a corresponding algorithm may be defined at step . The algorithm corresponding to the entity type may be utilized for a match operation between data records of the member type associated with the that entity type such that member data records of that member type may be associated with one another as an entity of that entity type through a match operation performed according to the algorithm corresponding to that entity type. The configuration of such an algorithm may be better understood with reference to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 702 410 entitled Method and System for a Graphical User Interface for the Configuration of an Algorithm for the Matching of Data Records by Schumacher et al filed on Feb. 5 2007 and fully incorporated herein by reference.

Moving now to an embodiment of a method for the definition of a relationship type is depicted. At step a user may create a new relationship type and assign it a type descriptor. This new relationship may in one embodiment be started by cloning an existing relationship type. At step then the user may define directionality associated with the relationship. This directionality may denote whether the relationship is bidirectional or whether there it only applies in one direction. In other words if a relationship applies to entities A and B it is bidirectional or nondirectional if it applies to A with respect to B and B with respect to A while the relationship is unidirectional if it applies only to A with respect to B and not B with respect to A or vice versa . For example a relationship of type lives with may be bidirectional e.g. A may live with B and B may also live with A while a relationship of type owns may be unidirectional e.g. A owns B but B does not own A .

After selecting the directionality of the relationship type then the user may define the multiplicity of the relationship at step . The multiplicity of a relationship may designate the number of entities which may correspond to the relationship. This multiplicity may designate for example a one to one a many to one a one to many or a many to many relationship type indicating respectively that one entity may be related to one entity according to the relationship type many entities may be related to one entity according to the relationship type etc.

At step the type s of entities which may be associated with the relationship type are defined. Here the entity types to which the relationship type being defined may apply are specified. In other words the relationship type may pertain or have semantic meaning only with respect to certain entity types. These entity types may specified such that a relationship of the relationship type being defined may only designate a relationship between entities of the entity types specified. For example a employs relationship type may be designated to apply to an organization entity type and a person entity type e.g. an organization employs a person .

It may be useful here to illustrate the definition of an example entity type and relationship type in conjunction with the configuration of the MEI utilizing one embodiment of an interface which may be provided for such a purpose as discussed above. Therefore attention is first directed to which depict one embodiment of the definition of an entity type with respect to the MEI utilizing a graphical user interface which may be for example a web or network based graphical interface utilizing an API provided by the MEI. Referring now to a user first selects the Add button to add a new member type which presents the user with the screen depicted in allowing a user to assign a name to the member type and associate attributes with that member type. Here the user has defined the member type Vehicle and associated an attribute named VIN with the Vehicle member type. In the user has associated two more attributes make and model with the Vehicle member type.

Utilizing the interface as shown in then the user selects the Entity Types tab to add an entity type to the configuration of the MEI by selecting the Add button in and adding the member type Vehicle as an entity type in . The user then selects the Composite Views tab and the Add button in to associate a composite view with the member type and thus the entity type as well and in adds the TxDot View to the list of composite views to be used with the member type and entity type Vehicle .

The user then selects the Sources tab in to add a data source for data records of the member type Vehicle by selecting the Add button in and adding the data source National Vehicle Registry in . Notice as well in that the user is presented with the attributes make model and VIN associated with the member type Vehicle and the user has designated that these attributes are comprised by data records in the data source National Vehicle Registry .

The user next selects the Algorithms tab in and the New button in to define an algorithm corresponding to the Vehicle entity type. The user is then presented with an interface which allows a user to define an algorithm for the matching comparison linking etc. of data records in association with that entity type e.g. that data records will be linked as an entity of that entity type if they match according to the algorithm . depict an example of the configuration of an algorithm for the Vehicle entity type using such an interface.

Moving now to one embodiment of the definition of a relationship type with respect to the MEI utilizing a graphical user interface is depicted. In the user has selected the Relationship Types tabs which display a list of the currently defined relationship types while in the user has selected the Add button to add new relationship type. As shown in the user has added relationship type of Owns which is a directional relationship with a one to many multiplicity e.g. meaning the one entity can own many other entities but the many entities do not own the one entity and the user is in the process of defining a type of entity with which the relationship type of owns may be utilized. Between and the use has selected the entity type of id to be a first type of entity utilized with the owns relationship type that the relationship type owns is to be referred to as owns and is in the process of defining the second type of entity which may be utilized with this relationship type which as shown in is a Vehicle entity type. Thus as defined the owns entity type may represent that a person represent by an entity of type id may own multiple vehicles represented by entities of the Vehicle entity type 

After a thorough review of the above description of the functioning of the MEI and the configuration of entity relationship type with respect to the MEI it will be understood that during operation the MEI may be configured with an arbitrary number of entity types or relationship types representing almost any manner of logical or physical phenomena and logical or physical relationships between these phenomena. The establishment of entities or relationships in conjunction with these entity types may better understood with respect to .

Once the member type corresponding to the incoming data record is determined the data record may be validated and standardized at step . Validation may include examining the lengths of the fields or the syntax or character format of the fields for example as numeric fields may be required to contain digits in specified formats. Validation may also involve validating codes in the new data record for example valid state abbreviations or diagnostic codes. Standardization of the data record may involve processing the incoming data record to compute standard representations of the values of attributes associated with the incoming data record such as standard representation of names street addresses or other geographic locations social security numbers etc.

The MEI may then in step add the standardized data record to the data store as a data record of the member type determined at step . Each entity type corresponding to the member type of the data record may then be determined at step . As discussed above when defining an entity type the type of member data records which may be associated with entities of that entity type may be defined. Thus here it may be the case that each entity type which defines an association of data records of the member type determined at step may be identified. For each of the entity types identified then a match operation may be performed at step between the new data record and other data records of that member type in the MEI based upon a comparison of attribute values according to the algorithm corresponding to that entity type e.g. configured in conjunction with that entity type . This match operation may involve the generation of a set of candidate data records based upon a comparison of the new data record and the other data records of that member type. A confidence level may then be generated for each of the candidate data record with respect to the new data record.

If at step the confidence level for all of the candidate data records is below a certain threshold called a clerical review or softlink threshold a new entity of the entity type may be established for the new data record at step e.g. a new entity identifier generated and associated with the entity type and the new data record in the entity database . If however the score associated with a candidate data record is above another threshold referred to as an autolink or hardlink threshold at step the new data record may be associated or linked with the candidate data record. This association may involve associating the two records with a single entity identifier corresponding to the entity type in the entity database. If the confidence level associated with a candidate data record is above the clerical review threshold but below the autolink threshold at step the new data record may be associated or linked with the candidate data record and the association or link of the new data record to the candidate data record may be flagged or otherwise marked for review by a user of MEI such that a determination may be made whether this association or link should be maintained. Thus when a new data record of a certain member type is added to MEI for each of the entity types which correspond to that member type a new entity may be established and associated with the new data record or the new data record is associated with an existing entity of that type.

Moving on to one method for establishing a relationship between two entities is depicted. At step a user of MEI may select a relationship type from a set of defined relationship types as discussed above . The user may then select a first entity for which this relationship is to be established at step and a second entity to which it is desired to establish a relationship of the relationship type between the first entity and the second entity at step . The types of the selected entities may then be checked against the entity types defined in conjunction with the relationship type to confirm that the selected entities are of the defined entity types at step . If the entities conform to the defined entity types associated with the relationship a relationship of the relationship type may established between the two selected entities at step e.g. a relationship identifier established in relationship database and associated with the relationship type and the two selected entities . Otherwise some sort of exception or fault may be flagged to a user.

This embodiment for establishing a relationship between entities may be better illustrated with a specific example. Suppose that a user wishes to establish a relationship of type owns as defined above with respect to two entities. The user may be presented with a set of relationship types from which a user may select the owns relationship type. The user may then be presented with or search for a first entity and select this entity. For purposes of this example suppose that this entity is an entity type of id representing a person named Patty Countryman . The user may then select a second entity which for purposes of this example is supposed to be of entity type of Vehicle and corresponds to one or more data records representing a particular 1974 Ferrari Dino. In this case as the relationship type of owns has been defined in conjunction with an entity type of id and an entity type of Vehicle the two selected entities are of the defined entity type a relationship of the type owns may be established between the first entity representing Patty Countryman and the second entity representing that particular 1974 Ferrari Dino where the established relationship may represent that Patty Countryman owns that 1974 Ferrari Dino.

From the above description it will also be noted that with respect to certain relationship types such as one to many many to many or many to one relationships multiple entities may be selected with respect to certain relationships and these entities selected and associated with the relationship as well where all the entities may be selected at once or at differing time periods. For example suppose that in the future Patty Countryman purchases a 2007 Lotus Elise and an entity corresponding to the Lotus Elise is subsequently added to the MEI as discussed above. Here it may be possible to select the owns relationship established between Patty Countryman and the 1974 Ferrari Dino and add the 2007 Lotus Elise to that relationship as the relationship type owns is a one to many relationship. Thus the same relationship may now represent that Patty Countryman owns both a 1974 Ferrari Dino and a 2007 Lotus Elise.

After reading this far it may occur to the reader that the combination of multiple data sources multiple entity types and multiple relationship types may create a complex network of entities and relationships which may be managed or indexed with respect to an MEI. Consequently in one embodiment an interface may be provided for use in conjunction with an embodiment of a master entity index system such that the various entities and relationships utilized in conjunction with the MEI may be better established manipulated visualized or otherwise managed. In particular the MEI may provide an application programming interface API such that various functionality of the MEI may be accessed or utilized through this API. In one embodiment one or more interfaces may be implemented in conjunction with the computers of one or more users such that these interfaces may be used by a user to query configure or otherwise interact or perform operations associated with the MEI through the API provided by the MEI. These interfaces may for example include a graphical user interface GUI comprising one or more web pages which may be accessed through a web browser by a user. These web pages may be provided from an application executing on a local computer or from a remote web server where the server may restrict access only to a private network e.g. a corporate intranet or it may publish pages on the World Wide Web. Such an interface may allow a user to obtain a wide variety of information or accomplish a whole host of tasks with respect to the entities and relationships maintained by the MEI. Embodiments of such interfaces will be described in more detail below but are also discussed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 901 040 entitled Hierarchy Global Management System and User Interface by Sean Stephens et al. filed on Sep. 14 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 620 647 fully incorporated herein by reference.

The various functionalities of such an interface may be better described with reference to which depict one embodiment of just such an interface. With reference to in one embodiment this interface may allow a user to search for or otherwise obtain a desired entity or relationship based upon one or more search criteria. The user may be presented with a way to select an entity type or relationship type to be searched for and may also be presented with one or more corresponding types of search criteria with which the search may be effectuated. These search criteria may correspond to attributes of various member types associated with the selected entity type or some other identification for a data record such as an identification corresponding with the data record in a particular data source. Here notice that the user has selected the entity type Identity which may correspond to a person. The user as then been presented with a dialogue box corresponding to the Identity entity type where the user can select to search using search criteria or by source ID using radio buttons. Boxes for entering search criteria corresponding to the attribute of Name and Social Security are presented to the user along with the option to return member data records individually instead of entities. The user has entered patty countryman as a selected search criteria for Name and selected the search button.

Thus MEI will now perform a search for member data records which correspond to the name patty countryman e.g. which score above a certain threshold . As can be seen with reference to representations of these data records may be graphically presented to the user. In one embodiment certain attribute values of the matching data records may be presented along with the score generated with respect to the search criteria. In addition a pull down menu may be presented where the pull down menu comprises a set of actions which may be taken with respect to each of the data records whose corresponding values are presented to a user. Here representations of three data records which correspond to the search criteria patty countryman are presented to the user where one of the data records matches the search criteria patty countryman with a score of 6.2 and two other of the data records match with a score of 5.8.

The user may then select one the data records to view. In particular a user may utilize the drop down menu to select a type of view to be presented in conjunction with a selected data record. These actions may include such actions as inspect relationships in association with the data record or to view other information or associations corresponding to the data record. In the user has utilized the drop down menu associated with representation of a data record which matches with a score of 5.8 to select the option of inspecting relationships associated with the identity type entity with which that data record is associated.

A selection of this sort may result in a graphical representation of the selected entity being presented to a user. More specifically in one embodiment a new tab with the an identification of the data record selected may be created where the tab corresponds to a visual representation of the selected entity along with visual representations of all entities related to the selected entity and visual representations of the relationships between the selected entity and each corresponding related entity. The selected entity may be highlighted in some manner such that it is clear that the entity is currently the focus of the visual representation referred to as the navigational focus point while each of the graphical representations of a relationship may comprise a descriptor of the type of relationship represented e.g. corresponding to a relationship name defined during definition of relationship type and the directionality of the relationship. In many cases a selected entity may have a myriad number of relationships such that it may not be desired to represent each of these relationships in the visual representation to avoid clutter of the visual representation. In one embodiment therefore if the number of relationships of a certain relationship types is above a certain threshold which may configurable a type of icon such as a cloud or the like may be used to represent this set of relationships where the cloud comprise a relationship descriptor corresponding to the relationship type and a number corresponding to the number of entities which are related to the navigational focus point according to that relationship type. A user may click on this cloud to obtain a more detailed visual representation of these entities e.g. to display all the entities represented by this cloud or a portion thereof .

The user may interact with the graphical interface utilizing graphical representation to view information associated with each of the represented entities or relationships e.g. the EMCA for the entity manipulate the represented entities or relationships or resolve tasks associated with the represented entities or relationships e.g. review established links . Additionally the user may select another represented entity as the navigation pivot point. When another entity representation is selected as the navigation pivot point this entity may be highlighted to denote it as the navigation pivot point and any representations for any entities related to the entity represented by the new pivot point not currently represented in the graphical representation may also be displayed along with representations for those corresponding relationships. In addition the representations of the entities and relationships may be shifted such that the new navigation pivot point is substantially centered in the display or may be shifted based upon the number configuration or position of entity representations already displayed or to be displayed in conjunction with the new navigational pivot point. As may be imagined as the user interact with the graphical representation any number of representation may be displayed at any one instance and the layout of such representation may grow quire complex therefore only a portion of the graphical representation may be displayed at any one time however the graphical representation may offer scrolling capabilities as are known in the art such that a user may scroll to display various portions of the graphical representation.

Referring to while interacting with graphical representation the user selects entity representation Saundra Cawthon resulting in the graphical representation of . Notice here that entity representation Saundra Cawthon is now visually highlighted denoting it as the navigation pivot point and that entity representation Jennifer Carnese is now displayed in graphical representation along with the relationship representation denoting that a boss of relationship exists between the entity represented by entity representation Jennifer Carnese and the entity represented by entity representation Saundra Cawthon . Note as well that the representations of entities and relationships in graphical display have shifted such that entity representation Saundra Cawthon is closer to the center of the portion of graphical representation currently being displayed to the user.

The user now interacts with graphical representation to select entity representation Jennifer Carnese resulting in the graphical representation of . Notice here that entity representation Jennifer Carnese is now visually highlighted denoting it as the navigation pivot point and that entity representation Jennifer Bell is now displayed in graphical representation along with the relationship representation denoting that a boss of relationship exists between the entity represented by entity representation Jennifer Bell and the entity represented by entity representation Jennifer Carnese . Note as well that the representations of entities and relationships in graphical representation have shifted such that entity representation Jennifer Carnese is closer to the center of the portion of graphical representation currently being displayed to the user.

A user may also interact with the graphical interface to establish relationships in the MEI. More specifically in one embodiment a user may select a first entity representation and a second entity representation. Based upon the types of the entities which correspond to the selected entity representations a menu of possible relationships to establish may be presented to the user. This set of possible relationships may be determined based on the entities selected. For example the types of the possible relationships presented may conform to those relationship types which have been defined for use with entity types which correspond to the type of entities associated with the selected entity representation. Furthermore the possible relationships presented may take into account the directionality of the relationship types on which they are based for example if a relationship is a directional relationship type the possible relationships presented may comprise two relationships of that relationship type one where the first entity has that relationship to the second entity and another where the second entity has that relationship to the first entity. Once a user selects one of the presented set of possible relationship the relationship may be represented on the graphical representation and established with respect to the MEI e.g. in the relationship database .

With reference now to suppose the user now interacts with graphical representation to first select entity representation Jennifer Carnese and then drags e.g. by holding down a button on a mouse to or in some other way indicates that he wishes to establish a relationship using entity representation Durenda Fuchs as shown in . Once the user has indicated that he wishes to establish a relationship between the entity represented by entity representation Jennifer Carnese and the entity represented by entity representation Durenda Fuchs a dialogue box may be presented to the user.

As shown in dialogue box presents a menu of possible relationships to the user where this set of possible of relationships was determined based upon the type of entity represented by entity representation Jennifer Carnese and the type of entity represented by entity representation Durenda Fuchs . In this case the only configured relationship type for entities of the type Identity may be the boss of relationship thus the set of possible relationship types may comprise the option to establish a boss of relationship between the entity represented by entity representation Jennifer Carnese and the entity represented by entity representation Durenda Fuchs . Furthermore as the boss of relationship is a directional relationship two options may be presented with respect to the boss of relationship an option where the entity represented by entity representation Jennifer Carnese is the boss of the entity represented by entity representation Durenda Fuchs and an option where the entity represented by entity representation Durenda Fuchs is the boss of where the entity represented by entity representation Jennifer Carnese .

Suppose that the user then select to create a relationship where the entity represented by entity representation Jennifer Carnese is the boss of the entity represented by entity representation Durenda Fuchs using the select button associated with that option in dialogue box . This action may result in the graphical representation depicted in . Notice with respect to graphical representation that relationship representation representing the relationship established between the entity represented by entity representation Jennifer Carnese and the entity represented by entity representation Durenda Fuchs is now depicted.

A user may also interact with the graphical interface to delete relationships in the MEI. More specifically in one embodiment a user may select a representation of a relationship using the graphical representation and choose to delete the relationship represented. Once a user selects to delete this relationship the represented relationship may be deleted with respect to the MEI e.g. in the relationship database .

This may be illustrated with respect to . Suppose now that a user interacting with graphical representation selects relationship representation representing a boss of relationship between the entity represented by entity representation Patty Countryman and the entity represented by entity representation Durenda Fuchs for example by clicking on the relationship representation . The user may further indicate with respect to graphical representation that he wishes to delete the relationship represented by relationship representation for example by right clicking or another type of indication such as a keystroke or the like.

As shown in a dialogue box may then be presented to the user confirming that the user wishes to delete the relationship represented by the selected relationship representation. Moving to once a user confirms that he wishes to delete the relationship the relationship between the entity represented by entity representation Patty Countryman and the entity represented by entity representation Durenda Fuchs may be deleted from the MEI and the corresponding relationship representation removed from the graphical representation as well.

As noted above the number of relationship representation and entity relationships displayed and the configuration of the various entities and relationship represented by these representations e.g. how the entities are related to one another may be utilized to determine the layout of the various representation with respect to graphical representation . Thus the deletion of a relationship may affect the layout of the remaining entity and relationship representations. This is better depicted with reference to the difference between graphical representation in and graphical representation in where the graphical interface has altered the layout of entity representations and relationship representations in graphical representation based upon the deletion of relationship representation . Notice here that entity representation Jennifer Carnese the current navigation point has been shifted toward the center of the displayed portion of graphical layout entity representation Durenda Fuchs has moved toward the top of the displayed portion of graphical layout entity representation Saundra Cawthon has moved toward the bottom of the displayed portion of graphical layout while entity representation Patty Countryman has disappeared entirely from the displayed portion of graphical layout .

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However one of ordinary skill in the art appreciates that various modifications and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the invention as set forth in the claims below. Accordingly the specification and figures are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of invention.

Benefits other advantages and solutions to problems have been described above with regard to specific embodiments. However the benefits advantages solutions to problems and any component s that may cause any benefit advantage or solution to occur or become more pronounced are not to be construed as a critical required or essential feature or component of any or all the claims.

