---

title: Radiation exposure self test (REST)—optimized personal dosimetry and kiosk for reliably indicating exposure to radiation
abstract: Described is a method and system that facilitates triage of thousands to millions of potential patients within a relatively short period of time by scanning of a substrate of a designated card issued to a victim. The method and the system comprise a plurality of noninvasive self-testing test devices located at a plurality of remote peripheral self-testing sites, and each one of the plurality of noninvasive self-testing test devices facilitates self-testing of the substrate of the designated card. Each of the plurality of noninvasive self-testing test devices provides test results of the scan of the substrate of the designated card, and the potential patients are identified, then subsequently screened and triaged based upon the test results of the scan of the substrate of the designated card.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09400331&OS=09400331&RS=09400331
owner: GRAY RAPID DIAGNOSIS, LLC
number: 09400331
owner_city: Hanover
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160216
---
This is a Continuation in Part application of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 488 145 filed on Sep. 16 2014 which is a non provisional patent application of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 878 332 filed on Sep. 16 2013 the entirety of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to a radiation exposure test and more particularly to a system and a method for a radiation exposure self test REST that provides a near real time rapid and accurate indication of radiation exposure.

A significant amount of funding has been spent in the development of medical and nonmedical countermeasures that are directed at counteracting the consequences of an intentional attack accident by an improvised nuclear radioactive device. As is well known in the art when a victim patient is exposed to ionizing radiation such as that emitted as a result of the intentional accidental detonation of a nuclear radiological device it is highly advantageous to administer medical countermeasures and or medical treatment as close to the time of exposure as possible. That is it is generally acceptable and advisable to administer such medical countermeasures and or medical treatment to counteract exposure to radiation within 24 hours so as to increase the probability that such medical countermeasures and or medical treatment will decrease morbidity and mortality of potential patients. Personal dosimetry is of particular importance as a supplement to or replacement to direct in vivo or direct physiological indicators or biomarkers. At present time current technology measures delayed manifestations such as chromosomal aberrations and white blood cell counts. In fact some victims who will eventually die from ARI in the hours and days after exposure may be asymptomatic and without significant physical complaints in the first few days after exposure thereby missing the time frame when medical counter measures MCM would be most effective.

It is contemplated that detonation of an improvised nuclear device within an urban area could easily impact over 1 million potential patients as cited in the DHS planning scenarios. It is to be appreciated that up to ten or more times that number of victims may actually show up for testing. Such detonation would result in immediate deaths due to traumatic injuries burns and acute radiation illness and additional deaths due to prolonged evacuation loss of continuity of current medical care and limited access to personal protective information and supplies. Widespread destruction could lead to panic and civil unrest. Radioactive contamination and continued exposure through ingestion and inhalation of radioactive particles would present ongoing medical and environmental issues. There also could be a significant loss of critical infrastructure such as command and control hospital and resource buildings communications power and water due to immediate destruction contamination and electromagnetic pulse damage thereby limiting or severely hindering at the very least the ability of the local state and federal authorities to provide the necessary care for the potential patients in need of life saving medical intervention and or treatment.

It is further recognized that popular and urgent national research objectives to obtain in vivo measurements in fingernails and teeth are fundamentally and significantly flawed. For example in terms of obtaining accurate and timely measurements in the in vivo environment and the sub optimal nature of the matrices it is highly unlikely that these systems will be utilized effectively in a true mass casualty incident and the measurements obtained are not a direct measurement of physiological response rather a measurement of sub atomic changes occurring within inert materials within the body. This effort may be causing delays in the development of a system that would potentially save countless lives in the event that a nuclear mass casualty incident were to occur.

A significant amount of the current effort underway is focused on developing technologies that take in vivo measurements from either a tooth or fingernails. In vivo versus in vitro testing is usually done to determine the clinical impact on a living organism bases on the actual response of the body or tissue for example. In the case of in vivo measurement of teeth or fingernail s there is no direct indication of clinical response of the body that could not be obtained from an optimized personal dosimeter such as a driver s license a credit card or some other measurable material carried in close proximity to the body of an individual. This distinction by itself could save significant funding in the final costs of implementing development building deploying and eventual FDA approval thereby leading into a new area of measurement that would be more cost effective faster portable and provide the same information. A desired system will quickly identify potential patients in a non invasive manner in a much shorter period of time.

In public health the term herd immunity is used to describe a large enough group that has become immune usually through vaccination so that the few members that are not vaccinated have an extremely unlikely chance that they will ever come in contact with an infected member therefore halting the spread of an infectious disease. With radiation exposure the term herd exposure could be utilized. In this case by measuring enough potential patients within a certain geographical area via a rapid self test procedure then at some point a determination could be made that within this group testing can be discontinued with confidence that no immediate medical care needs to be given or at the other extreme that more medical resources are required to be moved to a specific area based on the number of positive tests.

During the time of such a nuclear detonation or any other similar mass casualty public health event or disaster it is believed that there will be a significant need to accurately identify screen triage and gather data from thousands if not hundreds of thousands or millions of potential patients over a very short period of time optimally 24 hours. Further there may also be a need to identify screen then triage the entire population of citizens residing within a certain radius e.g. a 2 mile radius a 5 mile radius a 10 mile radius a 20 mile radius etc. depending upon the size of the nuclear detonation and environmental conditions of ground zero of the nuclear detonation in order to determine which potential patients require immediate medical attention and which potential patients due to either limited minimal or possibly no exposure to the radiation may defer medical attention or receive the necessary support or preventative treatment within a few days or possibly a few weeks for example or may not require any medical countermeasures medical treatment or any attention at all. Moreover given that the population that may be affected by such a mass disaster could conceivably amount to 1 million or more potential patients the current medical screening and triage processes are generally unacceptable and insufficient to handle such a large volume of potential patients within such a short duration of time e.g. within 24 or 48 hours for example of the nuclear detonation or some other mass casualty event or public health or disaster.

A mean lethal dose of radiation which typically kills 50 of human beings within sixty 60 days is a whole body radiation dose of typically between 3.25 to 4 Gy when following exposure to such radiation the victim patient does not receive any medical care or treatment. However if the victim patient receives medical care and attention such as myeloid cytokines G CSF Filgrastim supportive care antibiotics anti nausea medicines bone marrow transplants for example following whole body exposure to radiation of a dose greater than about 2 3 Gy then the patient has a higher probability of surviving such radiation exposure. The ability to rapidly self test individual patients within a very short period of time i.e. 15 30 seconds per test per person total test time is variable and would include sample scan time card insertion and release time patient movement through kiosk would allow near real time allocation and distribution of resources to the patients most requiring life saving or supportive care. Further depending on available resources it is generally accepted that a whole body dose of radiation of greater than 8 10 Gy is likely to be lethal to any victim patient in a mass casualty setting.

Researchers are currently developing and testing equipment to measure dose levels in the tooth enamel and fingernails of potential patients of a radiological or a nuclear catastrophe including a terrorist attack. At present such test equipment is relatively large bulky sensitive to vibrations and temperature difficult to operate subject to in vivo variations and victim patient movement. Each measuring device must be operated by specifically trained personnel and typically requires a scan or data acquisition time of over 5 10 minutes. In addition the additional time associated with removing the previous victim patient fitting new victim patient removing and putting on a new pair of gloves gathering and adding disposables readjusting tooth or fingernail placement taking additional universal precautions against infectious disease and allowing additional time for patient movement and re test if the patient moves significantly during the test procedure could bring the total cycle time for each patient to typically between at least 10 15 minutes. Many times the patient must be rescanned in order to obtain more accurate data and assess confounding factors such as discolorations moisture content recent fingernail clipping and co existing illness for example. Infant or younger pediatric patients who may also be preferentially exposed would typically be unable to remain still for such long scan times or may not have sufficiently developed teeth for example deciduous teeth may be too small for an accurate measurement . Likewise elderly patients or those with significant prior dental work may not be eligible for this test and are less likely to accurately describe symptoms. Lastly the associated test equipment is fairly expensive with an estimated cost of several hundred thousand dollars and as noted above is delicate large and requires specially trained personnel to operate.

Even if the current in vivo fingernail or tooth test equipment were operationally viable and logistically considerations such as high replacement and storage costs were appropriately addressed the difficulty of moving delicate and bulky equipment expendables such as magnetic coils plastic coverings OSHA protections gloves gowns masks and other supplies become very expensive and time consuming. Aside from the mentioned concerns current in vivo fingernail or tooth dosimetry still has limited capability for assisting in the screening and triage of many hundreds of thousands or millions of victims patients in a clinically meaningful time frame. Such equipment can only test approximately 4 patients per hour that translates to about 48 patients per day and 96 patients over the course of two days. This time frame is too long and would limit the number of patients able to receive care within the time when it is highly recommended for medical treatment for radiation exposure. Further illness and death would result from delays in decontamination evacuation and supportive care and loss of continuity of current medical conditions. Accordingly such test equipment is unacceptable for assisting with the screening and triaging of many hundreds of thousands of potential patients who would likely be seeking testing after a large scale radiological event.

Generally speaking there is a concern relating to two types of exposure acute and chronic. An acute exposure is a single accidental exposure to a high dose of ionizing radiation over a short period of time directly resulting in acute radiation illness when exposure is high enough. An acute exposure has the potential for producing both non stochastic and stochastic effects. Chronic exposure which is also sometimes called continuous exposure is long term likely low level overexposure. Chronic exposure may result in stochastic health effects and is likely to be the result of improper or inadequate protective measures prolonged exposure with direct inhalation and ingestion of a variety of radioactive particles. As is well known in the art there are three basic ways of controlling exposure to harmful radiation namely 1 limiting the time spent near a source of radiation 2 increasing the distance away from the source 3 and using shielding to stop or reduce the level of radiation. In addition the radiation dose is directly proportional to the time exposed to the radiation. Therefore a victim patient should not stay at or near a source of radiation any longer than is absolutely necessary. Some mitigating activities could include appropriate personal protective actions precise regular and consistent public messaging sheltering in place rapid decontamination and evacuation. By utilizing a radiation exposure self test in a significant radiological or nuclear event patients will be rapidly triaged and screened and monitored over time with repeated testing therefore allowing reassurance and efficient mitigating and personal protective actions to occur. The following equation can be used to make a simple calculation to determine the dose that will be or has been received in a radiation area. Dose Dose Rate Time.

It is to be appreciated that increasing distance from the source of radiation will reduce the dose of ionizing radiation received by a victim patient. That is as the radiation travels from the source the radiation spreads out and becomes less intense. This phenomenon can be expressed by an equation known as the inverse square law which states that as the radiation travels out from the source the dosage decreases inversely with the square of the distance. Inverse Square Law 

As noted above shielding is a way to reduce exposure to radiation. Generally the denser the shielding material is the greater the protection that will be provided by the shielding material. For example depleted uranium and other heavy metals like tungsten are very effective in shielding radiation because their tightly packed atoms make it difficult for radiation to travel through the material without interacting with the atoms. Lead and concrete are the most commonly used radiation shielding materials primarily because they are easy to work with and are readily available materials. Concrete is commonly used in the construction of radiation vaults.

As evident above a continuing need exists for a radiation exposure self test that will provide a near real time rapid and accurate indication of radiation exposure.

Wherefore it is an object of the present invention to overcome the above mentioned shortcomings and drawbacks associated with currently available prior art indicating and screening and triaging systems methods and techniques.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a portable robust ruggedized and field deployable noninvasive self testing test device and method that permits a significant number of victims patients to self screen themselves e.g. self screen a fingernail within a relatively short duration of time e.g. within less than 1 minute total cycle time and more preferably self screen themselves utilizing an Optimized Personal Dosimeter OPD in about 10 20 seconds while still obtaining reliable test results concerning each such patient s exposure to radiation.

Still another object of the present invention is to incorporate the noninvasive self testing test device e.g. such as a fingernail a driver s license both non invasive into a lightweight portable kiosk that can be regionally staged and readily transported to a desired location for use. Preferably the kiosk will have multiple power options including battery operated as well as have multiple communication capabilities so that the noninvasive self testing test device is able to operate without being supplied with electrical power or hard wire for multiple means of communication.

A further object of the present invention is to quickly provide the victim patient substantially instantaneously with his her self testing results in a way that is easily and readily visible to the victim patient and the treating medical personnel upon completion of the self testing test so that the victim patient can be informed as to whether immediate medical countermeasures and or medical treatment is required for the victim patient or whether medical countermeasures and or medical treatment can be delayed for a relatively short duration of time e.g. a few days to a week or so so as to permit the other more seriously irradiated potential patients to be treated first. This will allow the patient to make an informed decision regarding their care utilizing the readings that are readily available. Information will also be transmitted directly or cloud based and available to first responders incident commanders emergency operations centers public health and radiological subject matter experts.

A primary object of the present invention is to provide a system and a method that assists with self testing by the potentially exposed potential patients so as to free up the limited available nonmedical and medical staff medical equipment countermeasures transportation resources hospital beds etc. so that the nonmedical and medical staff can devote their attention to administering medical countermeasures and or medical treatment to the potential patients requiring immediate medical attention. The initial demographic information radiation dose test location repeated readings treatments received will provide an initial electronic medical record which can be continued into a more detailed incident specific medical record or incorporated into a patients regular medical record for evacuation long term follow up and continuity of care. The victim will have the option of adding additional information depending on time location and resources availability to add signs and symptoms injuries and illness past medical history family reunification information and privacy permissions and notifications.

Yet another object of the present invention is to provide substantially instantaneous results to the self screened victim radiological subject matter experts and and responders so that a majority of the population who may have only been exposed to clinically minimal doses of ionizing radiation e.g. less than about 1 2 Gy for example can be placed at ease and thereby minimize the possibility of public panic and civil unrest that would otherwise accompany a nuclear detonation or a similar destabilizing disaster.

A further embodiment of the system should be to measure and record the lower doses of less than 2 4 Gy in increments of approximately 0.1 Gy to support military combat readiness and deployment decisions and non military exposures for long term follow up and continued monitoring for continuing exposure or re exposure to a variety of radioactive materials.

A still further object of the present invention is to quickly reliably and accurately facilitate self testing of the exposed and potentially exposed population so that the potentially exposed population can be readily and quickly segregated and triaged into at least two of groups namely 1 a first group of potential patients who were exposed to a clinically significant dose of ionizing radiation e.g. exposed to a dose of ionizing radiation greater than 2 Gy for example and thus most likely require immediate medical consultation or administration of medical countermeasures or supportive care and 2 a second group of potential patients who were not exposed to a clinically significant dose of ionizing radiation e.g. only exposed to a dose of ionizing radiation less than 1 2 Gy for example and thus most likely do not require any immediate medical countermeasures and or medical treatment. In this way the available medical resources in near real time e.g. the medical and support personnel the medical countermeasures the medicines etc. can be more efficiently and expeditiously utilized for treating only patients exposed to a clinically significant dose of ionizing radiation and thereby increasing the probability that a majority of those treated patients may successfully respond to the administered medical countermeasures and or medical treatment. The effectiveness of REST will be enhanced by the incorporation into national and or local radiological response plans utilizing Sort Assess Lifesaving Intervention SALT principles Radiation Injury Treatment Network RITN protocols Radiation Emergency Medical Management REMM guidance and other triage screening and guidance utilized by responding personnel. By maximizing the efficiency of Radiation Evaluation Self Test medical staff and resources not distracted providing unnecessary triage and medical care may assist with maintaining evacuation and facilitate directing necessary urgent patients to local hospitals shelters assembly centers medical centers Radiation Injury Treatment Hospitals Red Cross sites and the like. This also facilitates real time allocation of available resources based on the number of victim patient self screened the medical doses and additional resources administered utilized for such exposed potential patients.

A further object of the invention is to provide a vast majority of citizens with an optimized card e.g. a driver s license a voter ID card an employee ID card a college student ID a bank or other credit card a dog tag etc. that will generally be carried within the general population a majority of the time and contains a substrate embedded in the plastic matrix added as an additional layer of film strip pellet or area of dense concentration that is designed to absorb and retain varied radiation exposure and change physical characteristics so that such substrate can be an accurate indicator of the dose of ionizing radiation that the potential victim patient has been exposed to acutely and over the lifetime of the victim. The substrate matrix could also maximize measurement of different particles or energy levels seen in radiological exposures and previous exposure readings will be stored for lifetime cumulative doses or environmental or occupational exposure.

Still another object of the present invention is to incorporate the noninvasive self testing test device according to the present invention into a relatively lightweight easily deployable and portable kiosk e.g. preferably weighing less than 30 pounds and more preferably weighing about 10 pounds or less of which a majority of the population is quite familiar with and can be readily used to administer the self testing of the potential victim patient in a quick and convenient manner. All of the associated components including a suitable power supply such as a battery as well as a wireless transmission transmitter and receiver are contained within the kiosk and thereby this facilitates ease of transport and set up by personnel.

Yet another object of the present invention is to provide each of the noninvasive self testing test devices with the number of power imports to facilitate either recharging of the internal power supply or battery and or the continuous supply of electrical power thereto such as through solar power or being plugged into an electrical grid etc. . In another aspect it is noted that the features of the present invention need to be field deployable have multiple power sources multiple means of communication and data transmission cell LAN satellite Wi Fi etc. as well as a means of caching cache data until a connection is made.

A still further object of the present invention is to facilitate ease of cleaning of the noninvasive self testing test device following each use so as to prevent or minimize generation of any false reading s . Further each noninvasive self testing test device will have the capability of verifying and calibrating the test results to facilitate further triaging of each victim patient following self testing by the noninvasive self testing test device.

Another object of the present invention is to incorporate a magnetic strip a chip or some other conventional informational 2D and 3D bar code thermal luminescent visual or data electronic storage mechanism or device on or into the OPD so that such information or data can be easily and accurately read during the self testing and thereby provide medical personnel with the desired relevant information relating to the potential victim patient e.g. the street where the victim patient resides the sex of the victim patient the year in which the victim patient was born etc. health information can also include specific location past medical history current illness or injury and incident specific treatment for use in public health emergencies and or routine medical care kiosk and can also obtain a obtain finger printing picture privacy notifications and permissions without violating any of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 HIPAA Privacy and Security Rules and Laws. Such information may be very useful in determining an area or areas of a city town or region in which a majority of the population was exposed to a clinically sufficient dose of ionizing radiation so that such information may be utilized to assist with triaging of any victim s patient s who did not have his her designated card in his her possession at the time of possible exposure to radiation. Such victim patient can then merely indicate where he she was located at the time of the incident and the medical personnel can then make an educated determination of whether or not either immediate medical countermeasures and or medical treatment are required for such victim patient or whether such medical countermeasures and or medical treatment may be delayed. It is important to note that due to the EMP of a blast embedded chips and other infrastructure may be damaged and therefore each kiosk reading may be limited to the exposure reading only from the OPD.

Still another object of the present invention is to facilitate communication e.g. preferably wireless communication or by direct connection via electrical wires between each one of the noninvasive self testing test devices and a wireless control center to facilitate the exchange of information as well as facilitate control and or modification of the radiation threshold of each one of the self testing test devices in real time so as to facilitate more efficient triaging and allocation of resources of the potential patients which may have been exposed to radiation.

The present invention relates to a radiation exposure test and more particularly to a system and a method for a radiation exposure self test REST for exposure to ionizing radiation that when compiled with clinical presentation environmental demographic and other population readings will provide a near real time rapid and accurate indication of radiation exposure. The following description is presented to enable one of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the invention and to incorporate it in the context of particular applications. Various modifications as well as a variety of uses in different applications will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the general principles defined herein may be applied to a wide range of aspects. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the aspects presented but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of the present invention. However it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without necessarily being limited to these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form rather than in detail in order to avoid obscuring the present invention.

The reader s attention is directed to all papers and documents which are filed concurrently with this specification and which are open to public inspection with this specification and the contents of all such papers and documents are incorporated herein by reference. All the features disclosed in this specification including any accompanying claims abstract and drawings may be replaced by alternative features serving the same equivalent or similar purpose unless expressly stated otherwise. Thus unless expressly stated otherwise each feature disclosed is one example only of a generic series of equivalent or similar features.

Furthermore any element in a claim that does not explicitly state means for performing a specified function or step for performing a specific function is not to be interpreted as a means or step clause as specified in 35 U.S.C. Section 112 Paragraph 6. In particular the use of step of or act of in the claims herein is not intended to invoke the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 Paragraph 6.

Before describing the invention in detail first an introduction provides the reader with a general understanding of the present invention. Finally specific details of the present invention are provided to give an understanding of the specific aspects.

The present invention relates to a Radiation Exposure Self Test REST and method for facilitating reliable noninvasive kiosk based self testing of multiple potential patients to determine which of those potential patients were exposed or continue to be exposed to a clinically sufficient dose of ionizing radiation from an nuclear detonation radiological dispersal device or other intentional accidental nuclear or radiological event.

The system and method provides a direct physical indicator self test for exposure to ionizing radiation that when compiled with clinical presentation environmental demographic and other population readings will provide a near real time rapid and accurate indication of exposure. Rapid evaluation of exposure to radiation can help quickly determine how many potential patients victims were exposed to a sufficient dose of penetrating radiation so as to warrant immediate life saving medical treatment to prevent or minimize the impact of Acute Radiation Syndrome ARS and the Delayed Effects of Acute Radiation Syndrome Exposure DEARE . After identifying and evacuating those who have been exposed to dangerous levels or radiation first responders can evacuate or shelter the remaining potential patients victims who do not require immediate treatment or identifying patients who require palliative and supportive care due to exposure of an excess dose of radiation.

Kiosk based self directed measurements of an enhanced identification card that has been optimized to be able to be used as a measurement of radiation exposure by Rapid Scan enhanced micro electron spin resonance micro ESR or other technologies such as colorimetric or photo luminescent technologies will greatly decrease the time of the overall process in assessing who has been exposed to a hazardous level of radiation. Analysis will also include environmental factors plume analysis intelligence blast area assessment and other physical indicators including field dosimeter readings clinical signs and symptoms medical screening and triage with eventual medical diagnosis. Data collected in near real time will be incorporated into Medical Triage Electronic Medical Records and the Incident Command System in order to most efficiently treat the greatest number of potential patients within the shortest possible time period aiming to identify then screen and triage all patients and provide treatment within a clinically significant time with the available resources. In certain high risk communities countries and urban areas or during periods of increased threat levels REST units can be deployed or continuously operated for faster response time.

Although current art Patel describe bulk batching of cards for rapid reading and self read colorimetric cards these are limited by cost environmental influences personal interpretations life span electromagnetic pulse vulnerability and the logistical difficulties of separating the potential patient physically from the privately purchased colorimetric card. The REST Kiosk with OPD systems represent monumental advances from the current art in personal dosimetry and response to overwhelming mass casualty events. Self testing allows results to be directly given to the potential patient within seconds after OPD insertion into the REST Kiosk as well as immediate caching of data and downloading when networking is available.

Further details of the REST system according to the principles of the present invention are provided below.

The present invention will be understood by reference to the following detailed description that should be read in conjunction with the appended drawings. It is to be appreciated that the following detailed description of various embodiments is by way of example only and is not meant to limit in any way the scope of the present invention.

Turning now to a brief description concerning the various components of the present invention will now be briefly discussed. As can be seen in this figure a designated card is generally in the shape of a driver s license a voter ID card a credit card or similar identification card normally carried by a potential victim patient during the course of his her day or possibly a button or another piece of clothing which is worn regularly by the potential victim patient. Preferably the designated card is a government issued picture identification card such as a driver s license a voter ID card etc. or possibly a bank card a credit card a gift card a college student ID card or the like which also contains a conventional magnetic strip a computer chip or some other conventional information or data storing device that contains desired demographic and health information concerning the potential victim patient to whom the designated card was issued. Such demographic information may comprise for example the full legal name of the card holder the address of the card holder the sex of the card holder the date of birth of the card holder the height and the weight of the card holder the eye color of the card holder etc. In the event that such information is not available or readable at the time of the scan then the system and the method will only provide the radiation exposure.

As diagrammatically shown in the designated card according to this embodiment generally comprises a laminated structure which comprises both a first material layer or substrate and a second material layer or substrate . The substrate s allow immediate and prolonged measurable changes to allow multiple cumulative readings as an indicator of incident specific continued exposure due to residual radiation radiation dust or fallout or routine cumulative lifetime exposure. Typically both the first and the second substrates are sandwiched between a pair of outer protective layers of the designated card . As a non limiting example the first and second substrates can be a tape or part of the laminate on the card a disc applied to the card or any other concentration of optimized material If desired each one of the first and the second substrate may also be completely encased or covered with a protective layer. The first substrate is capable of retaining and indicating any exposure e.g. gamma radiation to high energy radiation of the victim patient carrying the designated card . A suitable first substrate for retaining and indicating any high energy radiation exposure of the victim patient is alanine or calcium formate for example. The second substrate is capable of retaining and indicating any exposure e.g. to X rays to low energy radiation of the victim patient carrying the designated card . A suitable second substrate for retaining and indicating any low energy radiation exposure is seashell or hydroxyapatite for example. Both substrates are capable of retaining free radicals that are indicative of the radiation exposure of the victim. In another aspect the substrate can be a single material that is able to respond to low and high doses of radiation. Thus in this non limiting example the designated card would have a single material that operates effectively as both the first and second substrates . First and second substrates may be a single material capable of both low and high dose changes.

Turning now to a second embodiment of the designated card is diagrammatically shown. According to this embodiment at least the first substrate and more preferable in both the first substrate and the second substrate combined are located in a desired section e.g. in a corner region along an edge region etc. of the designated card . As with the previous embodiment the designated card is also provided with a conventional magnetic strip a computer chip or some other conventional information or data storing device that contains the desired demographic and health information concerning the victim patient to whom the designated card was issued so that all or only a desired or authorized portion of such information or data can be read and used to facilitate treating of the other potential patients elderly disabled pediatric i.e. that were in the vicinity of the nuclear detonation but may not have had his her designated card in his her possession at the time of the improvised nuclear detonation or to facilitate collection of such data for use in connection with a future radiological exposure.

A slightly modified version of the designated card is diagrammatically shown in . That is according to the first and the second strips are shown separate from one another along the same side edge of the designated card while a conventional magnetic strip or other conventional information or data storing device extends along the entire width of the designated card .

With reference now to a discussion concerning suitable noninvasive self testing test device for providing self testing of a designated card by the potential victim patient to whom the designated card was issued will now be provided. One suitable noninvasive self testing test device for providing self testing of the designated card is generally disclosed and described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 868 616 and 7 589 529 and the full teaching and entire disclosure of both of those patents is incorporated by reference in their entireties into this application. However such conventional noninvasive self testing test device must be modified in order to receive and test the designated card according to the present invention as will be described below in further detail. Preferably such noninvasive self testing test device according to the present invention weighs about 20 pounds or less so as to facilitate incorporating such test equipment into a self standing kiosk or some other light weight readily portable or transportable device.

As generally diagrammatically shown in the noninvasive self testing test device is equipped with a movable cardholder that slides along a track . The movable cardholder generally has two positions namely a first extended loading position in which the cardholder is positioned and located for receiving the designated card of the victim patient to be self tested and a second internal scanning reading position in which the designated card of the victim patient to be self tested supported by the cardholder is positioned and located for scanning or reading. When the movable cardholder is in the first extended loading position such position facilitates a victim patient placing his her designated card on the cardholder located along the slidable track as generally shown in . Once the designated card is supported and retained by the cardholder the victim patient then inserts or pushes the cardholder retaining the designated card along the track into the interior compartment of the noninvasive self testing test device shown in for scanning by a radiation detection head contained within the noninvasive self testing test device . In addition a conventional magnetic strip reader is also located within the interior compartment of the noninvasive self testing test device for reading the magnetic strip contained on the designated card . As a non limiting example the self testing device can be incorporated into an Automatic Teller Machine ATM or TSA type kiosk and mechanism or any other mechanism that is commonly used and understood by the public that can catch grab and slide a card or that can receive a manual insertion and holds the card until reading is completed at which time the card is dispensed from the device. In another aspect it should be noted that the designated card could be an identification card such as a driver s license. For example the driver s license can be used to double as a medical record storage tool such that it can be used to allow various doctors administrators etc. to access and store medical records for a particular person in the cloud that is tied to the user via the driver s license.

As the designated card passes by and swipes and or rubs against the magnetic strip reader or some other conventional information reading device the desired or authorized portion of the victim s demographic information contained on the designated card can be read by the magnetic strip reader in a conventional fashion. It is to be appreciated that in order to comply with the HIPAA Privacy and Security Rules only certain bits of information contained on the magnetic strip of the designated card may be actually retrieved by the magnetic strip reader or some other conventional information reading device e.g. the address of the designated card holder the sex of the card holder the year which the card holder was born etc. A front panel of the noninvasive self testing test device typically has a user interface by which the victim patient can answer one or more questions and thereby authorized reading of all or only an authorized portion of the demographic information contained on the magnetic strip . It is to be appreciated that at least the address of each of the potential patients being self screened can be particularly useful because such information may assist emergency personnel with determining which area s or region s in the vicinity of the nuclear detonation were exposed to a clinically significant dose of ionizing radiation and such information can assist with triaging many potential patients prior to any of those potential patients performing a self testing of their associated designated cards .

Once the designated card is fully inserted into and properly aligned with the radiation detection head contained within the self testing test equipment as generally indicated by at least the first substrate can be read in a conventional manner by the radiation detection head of the noninvasive self testing test device within a relatively short duration of time e.g. typically about 20 seconds or less more preferably about 15 seconds or less and most preferably within a few seconds or less. It is to be appreciated that rather than a single scan or reading the device may perform between 2 to 10 readings for example and then averaged the results of each reading in order to provide a more reliable indicator of the amount of exposure to radiation detected on the scanned designated card . Preferably the device is able to perform 10 100 kilo cycles second. Preferably both the first substrate and the second substrate can be simultaneously scanned and read by the radiation detection head of the noninvasive self testing test device typically within 20 seconds or less.

The noninvasive self testing test device is typically provided with an indicator device or mechanisms A B and C which readily displays the scanned radiation results of at least the first substrate of the designated card currently located within the noninvasive self testing test device e.g. whether or not at least the first substrate was exposed to a radiation dose greater than 2.5 Gy for example. It is to be appreciated that the sensitivity of the radiation detection head of the noninvasive self testing test device can be easily and readily adjusted e.g. upward to 2.6 2.7 . . . 3.0 Gy for example or downward to 2.4 2.3 . . . 2.0 Gy for example as necessary depending upon the amount of potential patients which are determined to have been exposed to a clinically significant dose of radiation. Direct readings of exposure throughout the range of exposure will also be readily available to victims patients and to first responders and medical personnel.

It is to be appreciated that all of the noninvasive self testing test devices may be interconnected with one another via electrical wires or a wireless network to facilitate communication with a central control center as shown in . The central control center see and or each one of the noninvasive self testing test devices may be provided with an algorithm that determines the radiation threshold e.g. 2.5 Gy and then periodically adjusts the radiation threshold either upward or downward depending upon the quantity of the self testing results which indicated that potential patients requiring medical countermeasures and or medical treatment. That is about 90 of the potential patients being tested should typically be determined as requiring either delayed or possibly no medical countermeasures and or medical treatment while about 10 of the potential patients being tested should typically be determined as requiring further screening triage and immediate medical countermeasures and or medical treatment.

Preferably each of the noninvasive self testing test devices is equipped with both a wireless transmitter and a wireless receiver as well as conventional input and output connections in order to facilitate wirelessly direct receiving and transmission of information and commands to and from the central control center thereby facilitate substantially instantaneous exchange of information and commands. The wireless transmitter the wireless receiver the user interface and an indicator mechanisms A B and C discussed below are all coupled to a central processor of the noninvasive self testing test devices which facilitate control of each of those components.

It is to be appreciated that the indicator mechanisms A B and C of the noninvasive self testing test device could merely be provided with a set of lights e.g. red light A a yellow light C and a green light B or direct read for example. That is if the radiation detection head of the noninvasive self testing test device determines that the first substrate was radiated with a radiation dose of greater than 2.5 Gy for example with the radiation threshold being 2.5 Gy for example then the first light e.g. the red light A is illuminated thereby indicating that immediate medical attention is required by the patient p the currently scanned designated card . However if the radiation detection head of the noninvasive self testing test device determines that the first substrate was radiated with a radiation dose of 2.5 Gy or less for example with the radiation threshold being 2.5 Gy for example then the second light e.g. the green light B is illuminated thereby indicating that either delayed or possibly no medical countermeasures and or medical treatment is currently required by the victim patient owning the currently scanned designated card .

Alternatively in lieu of the indicator mechanisms A B C of the noninvasive self testing test device a mating punch and die set A and B which are arranged on opposite sides of the designated card being scanned when the designated card is located within the self testing test equipment and supported by the cardholder . In the event that at least the first substrate of the designated card was scanned as being radiated with a radiation dose greater than 2.5 Gy for example then the designated card is automatically punched stamped by the mating punch and die set of the noninvasive self testing test device . The punch A B of the indicator mechanism provides the designated card with unique identification indicia that indicates that the victim to whom the designated card was issued requires immediate medical attention. Such punching of the designated card with the unique identification indicia will readily identify to both the nonmedical and the medical staff any victim s patient s requiring immediate medical attention and this should minimize the possibility of any victim s who were tested and determined as not requiring any immediate medical attention from being provided with immediate medical attention when such medical attention is not currently required and in limited supply.

As indicated above the noninvasive self testing test device may be adjusted so that if the scanned result of at least the first substrate of the designated card is within the range of 2 3 Gy for example then either delayed or possibly no medical attention is required for victim patient owning such scanned designated card . However if the scanned result of at least the first substrate of the designated card is greater than 2 3 Gy but less than 8 Gy for example then this would tend to indicate that immediate medical attention is warranted and required for victim patient owning such scanned designated card so that further screening or triage of such victim patient in the medical treatment area can then occur e.g. the victim patient may be given a blood test urine test respiratory or conventional diagnostic tests to determine more accurately the actual dose of ionizing radiation that the victim patient was exposed to and design and implement a suitable treatment plan for treating such exposed victim patient.

For any victim patient who may have received a generally lethal radiation exposure e.g. greater than 8 10 Gy for example the designated card of such victim patient could be indicated by third light e.g. a yellow light C for example and or marked with a second unique identifying indicia by the mating punch and die set A and B respectively to indicate to both nonmedical and medical personnel that an alternative medical treatment procedure should be administered to such victim patient.

It is to be appreciated that depending upon the amount of potential patients that are self screened by the noninvasive self testing test device as well as the initial results of the self testing of the designated cards of such potential patients the radiation threshold of one or more of the noninvasive self testing test device can be easily remotely modified or adjusted upward or downward by the central control center . That is if the scanned results of the designated cards of an excessively high number of potential patients that were self screened are determined to have a radiation exposure of at least or greater than 2 Gy for example then the radiation threshold of one or more of the noninvasive self testing test devices can be modified to be higher such as 2.5 Gy for example so that only scanned results of the first substrate of the designated card which are at least or greater than 2.5 Gy will be indicated as requiring immediate medical attention while scanned results of the first substrate of the designated card which are less than 2.5 Gy will be indicated as requiring either delayed or possibly no medical attention.

A slightly modified version of the noninvasive self testing test device is diagrammatically shown in . As this embodiment is quite similar to the previous embodiment only the differences between this embodiment and the prior embodiment will be discussed in detail.

According this embodiment a front portion of the kiosk has an insertion aperture that facilitates insertion of the designated card into the self testing test device . A first pair of mating rollers A B are located within the self testing test device closely adjacent and on the opposite side of the insertion aperture IA. The first pair of mating rollers A B initially engage with the designated card see as the designated card is initially inserted into the self testing test devices so as to facilitate feeding of the designated card into the self testing test device .

A second pair of mating rollers A B is spaced from the first pair of mating rollers A B and the second pair of mating rollers A B facilitate insertion of the designated card into the measurement chamber of the self testing test device where the amount of radiation contained on the first substrate and possibly the second substrate of the designated card are detected see . As shown in when the designated card is located between the first and second pairs of mating rollers A B A and B the magnetic strip of the designated card is exposed and can be read by the magnetic strip reader in a conventional manner or by an optical reader having an optical field of view .

In another aspect the self testing device is operable to take simultaneous readings or immediate consecutive readings e.g. 1 2 3 and fingerprinting and picture taking of the patient and allow for the input of information from the patient regarding exact location symptoms pre existing illness and medical conditions and privacy acknowledgments and permissions.

With reference now to use of the self testing test devices to scan at least the first substrate of the designated cards of a plurality of potential patients in order to triage such potential patients following a improvised nuclear detonation or some other mass disaster will now be described. is a diagrammatic map showing the nuclear detonation blast which hypothetically occurred at location which may be in an urban area for example possibly a sports arena or some other private or public facility or structure where a large crowd of people periodically gather. According to this example it is contemplated that tens of thousands of people to millions will be at or in the vicinity of location and were possibly exposed to some extent to radiation given off by this nuclear detonation or other mass casualty disaster.

Depending upon the size and content the nuclear detonation it is conceivable that any and all potential patients located within radiussed area e.g. a 2 mile radius a 5 mile radius a 10 mile radius or possibly a 20 mile radius for example from location where the nuclear detonation occurred may potentially have been exposed to a clinically sufficient dose of ionizing radiation so as to warrant immediate medical countermeasures and or medical treatment. Alternatively there may be a number of potential patients who were not exposed to a clinically sufficient dose of ionizing radiation and thus not require any immediate medical attention and thus may be administered either delayed or possibly no medical attention.

According to the present invention as soon as practically possible after a nuclear detonation occurs at location e.g. can be pre staged or deployed within 1 5 hours a plurality of remote peripheral self testing sites A B C D E F can be easily set up by local state and or federal authorities to facilitate self testing of all of the potential patients who may have potentially been exposed to radiation that was given off as a result of the improvised nuclear detonation at location . As indicated in the Background Section of this disclosure it is important to remove all potential patients including all potential patients who may potentially have been exposed to such radiation as well as all potential patients who were not exposed to any radiation a safe distance away from the nuclear blast site at location e.g. outside the radius of area as soon as practically possible so as to limit any further or continued exposure of such potential patients to any residual radiation. The local state and or federal authorities will assist with prompt evacuation of all individuals a determined radius from location . Preferably each one of these remote peripheral self testing sites A B C D E F will be located a safe distance away from the location where the nuclear detonation occurred so as to minimize any continued exposure of the potential patients to the radiation while at the same time each remote peripheral self testing site A B C D E F will also be located so as to provide relatively easy access by all potentially radiated potential patients in order to facilitate rapid self testing of the desired potential patients e.g. within 1 to 48 hours.

As diagrammatically shown in each one of the remote peripheral self testing sites A B C D E F is typically equipped with a plurality of the noninvasive self testing test devices which are each typically incorporated and contained within a portable kiosk . Such kiosk style self testing test devices can be readily and easily transported and setup at a variety of desired locations about the periphery of area within a very short duration of time e.g. a few hours or so and thereby permit self testing by potential patients who may have been exposed to radiation shortly after the nuclear detonation or other mass disaster.

Each victim patient will during the self testing procedure individually scan his her designated card to determine the dose of ionizing radiation that is contained on at least the first substrate and possibly the second substrate of the designated card . As noted above the amount of radiation contained on at least the first substrate of the designated card is a reliable indicator of the dose of ionizing radiation that the victim patient to whom the designated card was assigned was actually exposed during the nuclear detonation. The above is based upon the assumption the designated card was in the actual possession of or in close proximity to the card owner potential victim patient at the time of the nuclear detonation. During a first process of the self testing test each victim patient may first be asked time permitting whether or not the designated card was in his her possession at the time of the nuclear detonation. In the event that the answer is yes then the designated card is scanned as described above. However in the event that the answer is no then the designated card may possibly not be scanned and such victim patient is generally referred to appropriate nonmedical support staff or personnel or possibly asked to provide their name and address and also indicate precisely where they were located at the time of the nuclear detonation or other mass disaster. In addition they may provide further details concerning where they were from the time of the nuclear detonation up until the time of the attempted self testing.

Thereafter the nonmedical support staff or personnel once a sufficient amount of information is collected from a plurality of self screened potential patients should be able to render an educated determination of whether or not such victim patient who did not have his her designated card in his her possession at the time of the nuclear detonation requires immediate medical attention or requires either delayed or possibly no medical attention at all. Such educated determination will typically be rendered by identifying a sufficient number of potential patients who were also at the same location s as or in the same or in close proximity to the victim s patient s who did not have his her designated card in his her possession at the time of the nuclear detonation. For example if a number of potential patients who were also at the same location or in the vicinity of the victim s patient s who did not have his her designated card in his her possession at the time of the nuclear detonation were determined as requiring immediate medical attention then the victim patient who did not have his her designated card in his her possession at the time of the nuclear detonation and was at the same location s or in close proximity thereto most likely will require immediate medical attention and should be sent to the medical treatment area for further screening. If on the other hand a number of potential patients who were also at the same location s or in the same vicinity as the victim s patient s who did not have his her designated card in his her possession at the time of the nuclear detonation were determined as requiring either delayed or possibly no medical attention at this time then the victim s patient s who did not have his her designated card in his her possession at the time of the nuclear detonation and was at the same location s or in close proximity thereto will most likely require either delayed or possibly no medical attention at this time.

Based upon the determined results of the self testing test device each self screened victim patient can then either be sent 1 to a first treatment area where a lower level or possibly delayed medical countermeasures and or medical treatment can be arranged and or administered to such victim patient or a delayed treatment program can be scheduled for such victim patient and each victim patient sent home 2 to a second treatment area where a treating drug s or medication s can be administered or possibly further screening of such victim patient can occur e.g. a blood urine or other conventional testing can be performed in order to determine the full extent of the radiation exposure by that victim patient so that suitable treatment plan can be immediately promptly initiated for such victim patient or possibly 3 to a third treatment area were alternative and or appropriate medical countermeasures and or medical treatment can be administered for any victim s patient s who conceivably received a lethal dose of radiation.

As noted above preferably the central control center is connected wirelessly or possibly hardwired to each one of the noninvasive self testing test device located at each of the remote peripheral self testing sites A B C D E F. Such wireless communication facilitates transfer of the self testing test results to the central control center so that such nonmedical or medical personnel can instantaneously determine how many of the self screened potential patients will require immediate medical attention.

In addition as noted above if the self testing of at least the first substrate of the designated cards of the potential patients reveals that an excessively high amount of potential patients require immediate medical attention then an adjustment control signal can be sent out from the central control center to each one of the noninvasive self testing test device to incrementally increase the radiation threshold at which a self screened first substrate will indicate that immediate medical attention is required. For example if the radiation threshold is set at 2.5 Gy then any scanned results of the first substrate either at or above this threshold this will result in an indication which indicates that immediate medical attention is required. Accordingly the adjustment control signal would include for example a command to increase the radiation threshold to 2.7 or possibly 2.9 depending upon the initial self testing results of the potential patients that were determined as requiring immediate medical attention.

Alternatively if the self testing of at least the first substrate of the designated cards of the potential patients reveals that an excessively low amount of potential patients require immediate medical attention then an adjustment control signal can be sent out from the central control center to each one of the noninvasive self testing test device to incrementally decrease the radiation threshold at which a self screened first substrate will indicate that immediate medical attention is required. For example if the radiation threshold is set at 2.5 Gy then any scanned results of the first substrate either at or above this threshold this will result in an indication which indicates that immediate medical attention is required. Accordingly the adjustment control signal would include for example a command to decrease the radiation threshold to 2.3 or possibly 2.1 depending upon the initial self testing results of the potential patients that were determined as requiring immediate medical attention.

With reference now to a discussion relating to the second treatment area will now be provided. As noted above all potential patients directed to the second treatment area will eventually be administered at least one medical countermeasure s and or provided with some medical treatment. However the amount and type of medical countermeasures and or medical treatment to be administered to each one of the potential patients in the second treatment area may possibly vary from victim patient to victim patient. For example if a relatively low number of potential patients are currently located at the second treatment area then further screening of all or most of such potential patients can generally occur e.g. a blood urine or conventional testing can be performed to determine the full extent of the radiation exposure by each such victim patient so that a suitable treatment plan can be devised and implemented for each victim patient. Moreover such further screening or testing of all or many of the potential patients located at the second treatment area facilitates further triaging and segregation of the patient s victim s who conceivably received a lethal dose of radiation e.g. victim s patient s who should be sent to the third treatment area where alternative and or appropriate medical countermeasures and or medical treatment can be administered from those potential victim s patient s who received a clinically sufficient but treatable dose of ionizing radiation. Such further triaging thereby ensures that the available medical medications and or drugs are only administered to those potential patients who received a clinically sufficient but treatable dose of ionizing radiation and thereby conserves precious medical treating resources for the patient s victim s who could benefit most from the available medical treating resources.

Alternatively if a relatively high number of potential patients are located within the second treatment area then further screening of all or many of those potential patients may not be feasible. In such instance all of the potential patients currently located at the second treatment area may be administered essentially the same treatment plan in order to treat as quickly and efficiently as possible the potential patients which are currently located within the second treatment area .

For any victim patient in which the self scanning process indicates that medical countermeasures and or medical treatment can be delayed for a few days or possibly a few weeks then such victim patient may possibly be referred to a remote site scheduling area where each such victim patient can schedule an appointment s to be administered the necessary medical countermeasures and or medical treatment to that victim s patient s over the course of the next few days or next few weeks. Alternatively such potential patients can be given a telephone number an address an e mail address etc. to contact in order to arrange schedule one or more appointments for administering the necessary countermeasures and or medical treatment to the victim patient.

During the scan by the radiation detection head of the noninvasive self testing test device it is initially desirable for the radiation threshold value of each noninvasive self testing test device to be set slightly on the low side e.g. the radiation threshold value may initially be set at less than 2.0 Gy at possibly 1.8 Gy for example so that initially the self testing of at least the first substrate of the designated cards of the potential patients will generally be over inclusive. That is it is typically better for the self testing testing to refer any victim patient who may marginally have been exposed to a clinically sufficient dose of ionizing radiation to the second treatment area in order to commence administration of appropriate medical countermeasures and or medical treatment rather than to delay such medical countermeasures and or medical treatment for such marginally exposed victim s patient s .

It should be appreciated that the radiation detection head may be one or several of the following measurement devices 1 an electron spin resonance spectrometer 2 an optical spectrometer 3 a MOSFET based electronic dosimeter or 4 any other device conventionally understood to be useful for the measurement of ionizing radiation.

It is to be appreciated that the noninvasive self testing test devices incorporated into a kiosk can be located at various public locations throughout the country e.g. they can be permanent stand alone units which are distributed throughout a city region county state or country. These noninvasive self testing test devices will provide a number of potential patients with the ability to check periodically their exposure to radiation during the course of the year s . For example many potential patients may live next to a nuclear power plant and other facilities which emit some radiation and these noninvasive self testing test devices will allow such victim patient potential patients to check and monitor periodically their continued exposure to radiation.

By way of example the currently rank and city population for the largest cities in the United States is as follows 1. New York N.Y. 8 143 197 people 2. Los Angeles Calif. 3 844 829 people 3. Chicago Ill. 2 842 518 people 4. Houston Tex. 2 016 582 people 5. Philadelphia Pa. 1 463 281 people 6. Phoenix Ariz. 1 461 575 people 7. San Antonio Tex. 1 256 509 people 8. San Diego Calif. 1 255 540 people 9. Dallas Tex. 1 213 825 people 10. San Jose Calif. 912 332 people. The following table shows the number of conventional machines needed depending on cycle time and population screened.

As is apparent from the above table the present invention is capable of facilitating of self scanning of many thousands or hundreds of thousands or millions of people with a minimal amount of associated equipment.

It is to be appreciated that while the above description generally refers to a substrate is conceivable that a variety of other items or components would be suitable to be scanned by the device according to the present invention. For example a variety of clothing items such as buttons fabrics clothing linings foot wear footwear linings shoes etc. may be fabricated from a material or be manufactured to incorporate a suitable substrate which is capable of being activated immediately when exposed to radiation and facilitate retaining such radiation so as to form a reliable indicator of the amount of radiation that the victim patient was exposed.

In addition it is to be appreciated that a variety of biological samples such as a mouth swab hair a fingernail urine other bodily fluids as well is a non biological sample may be utilized in accordance with the present invention.

As alluded to above it is to be appreciated the present invention is also applicable to identifying victims patients requiring treating other types of mass disasters such public health emergencies or routine health care involving a biological or a chemical incident or some other mass disaster not involving radiation or used in non emergency or routine medical care involving self testing self reporting and patient informed decision making.

In the above description and appended drawings it is to be appreciated that only the terms consisting of and consisting only of are to be construed in the limitative sense while of all other terms are to be construed as being open ended and given the broadest possible meaning.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been described in detail it is apparent that various modifications and alterations of those embodiments will occur to and be readily apparent those skilled in the art. However it is to be expressly understood that such modifications and alterations are within the scope and spirit of the present invention as set forth in the appended claims. Further the invention s described herein is capable of other embodiments and of being practiced or of being carried out in various other related ways. In addition it is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting. The use of including comprising or having and variations thereof herein is meant to encompass the items listed thereafter and equivalents thereof as well as additional items.

