---

title: Social network interaction via games
abstract: Techniques for enabling members to learn about and interact with their social network via games are described. According to various embodiments, it is determined that a content item or entity associated with an online social network service is relevant to a member of the online social network service. An online game including a game question and a correct game answer is generated based on the content item or entity. The game question is then displayed to the member, and a member response to the displayed game question is received. Thereafter, a game result is displayed, and the member is enabled to interact with the content item or entity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09558613&OS=09558613&RS=09558613
owner: LinkedIn Corporation
number: 09558613
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160617
---
This application is a continuation of prior application Ser. No. 14 319 955 filed on Jun. 30 2014 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present application relates generally to data processing systems and in one specific example to techniques for enabling members to learn about and interact with their social network via games.

Online social network services such as LinkedIn are becoming increasingly popular with many such websites boasting millions of active members. Each member of the online social network service is able to upload an editable member profile page to the online social network service. Further each member of the online social network service may have any number of member connections.

Example methods and systems for enabling members to learn about and interact with their social network via games are described. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of example embodiments. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details.

According to various example embodiments a social network interaction gaming system is configured to enable members to learn more about their social network and to interact to a greater extent with their social network in a fun interesting and entertaining manner. For example as described herein a social network interaction gaming system is configured to present a member with questions in the form of a game or a quiz where the questions may pertain to content items members entities etc. associated with their social network. For example the system may ask questions such as which of the following members went to the same high school as you which of the following members is a board member at company XYZ which of the following members has being most endorsed for the skill of HTML which of the following companies has the highest stock price which one of the following universities has the largest endowment which of the following groups has the most members and so on. Moreover the system enables the member currently viewing and playing the game hereinafter a viewing member to interact with various content items members and entities that are the subject of the game that they are playing or just played. Thus the member is more likely to learn about and interact with their social network via such games and quizzes.

As shown in the data layer includes several databases such as a database for storing profile data including both member profile data as well as profile data for various organizations. Consistent with some embodiments when a person initially registers to become a member of the social network service the person will be prompted to provide some personal information such as his or her name age e.g. birthdate gender interests contact information hometown address the names of the member s spouse and or family members educational background e.g. schools majors matriculation and or graduation dates etc. employment history skills professional organizations and so on. This information is stored for example in the database with reference number . Similarly when a representative of an organization initially registers the organization with the social network service the representative may be prompted to provide certain information about the organization. This information may be stored for example in the database with reference number or another database not shown . With some embodiments the profile data may be processed e.g. in the background or offline to generate various derived profile data. For example if a member has provided information about various job titles the member has held with the same company or different companies and for how long this information can be used to infer or derive a member profile attribute indicating the member s overall seniority level or seniority level within a particular company. With some embodiments importing or otherwise accessing data from one or more externally hosted data sources may enhance profile data for both members and organizations. For instance with companies in particular financial data may be imported from one or more external data sources and made part of a company s profile.

Once registered a member may invite other members or be invited by other members to connect via the social network service. A connection may require a bi lateral agreement by the members such that both members acknowledge the establishment of the connection. Similarly with some embodiments a member may elect to follow another member. In contrast to establishing a connection the concept of following another member typically is a unilateral operation and at least with some embodiments does not require acknowledgement or approval by the member that is being followed. When one member follows another the member who is following may receive status updates or other messages published by the member being followed or relating to various activities undertaken by the member being followed. Similarly when a member follows an organization the member becomes eligible to receive messages or status updates published on behalf of the organization. For instance messages or status updates published on behalf of an organization that a member is following will appear in the member s personalized data feed or content stream. In any case the various associations and relationships that the members establish with other members or with other entities and objects are stored and maintained within the social graph shown in with reference number .

The social network service may provide a broad range of other applications and services that allow members the opportunity to share and receive information often customized to the interests of the member. For example with some embodiments the social network service may include a photo sharing application that allows members to upload and share photos with other members. With some embodiments members may be able to self organize into groups or interest groups organized around a subject matter or topic of interest. With some embodiments the social network service may host various job listings providing details of job openings with various organizations.

As members interact with the various applications services and content made available via the social network service the members behavior e.g. content viewed links or member interest buttons selected etc. may be monitored and information concerning the member s activities and behavior may be stored for example as indicated in by the database with reference number .

With some embodiments the social network system includes what is generally referred to herein as a social network interaction gaming system . The social network interaction gaming system is described in more detail below in conjunction with .

Although not shown with some embodiments the social network system provides an application programming interface API module via which third party applications can access various services and data provided by the social network service. For example using an API a third party application may provide a user interface and logic that enables an authorized representative of an organization to publish messages from a third party application to a content hosting platform of the social network service that facilitates presentation of activity or content streams maintained and presented by the social network service. Such third party applications may be browser based applications or may be operating system specific. In particular some third party applications may reside and execute on one or more mobile devices e.g. phones or tablet computing devices having a mobile operating system.

Turning now to a social network interaction gaming system includes a relevance module a gaming module and a database . The modules of the social network interaction gaming system may be implemented on or executed by a single device such as a social network interaction gaming device or on separate devices interconnected via a network. The aforementioned social network interaction gaming device may be for example one or more client machines or application servers. The operation of each of the aforementioned modules of the social network interaction gaming system will now be described in greater detail below.

As described herein the relevance module is configured to identify content items e.g. articles news stories publications etc. or entities associated with an online social network service e.g. members job postings group entities school entities influencer entities company entities etc. that may be relevant to a member of the online social network service. For example the relevance module may infer that a content item or entity is of interest to the member and or that the member is likely to interact with this content item or entity based on member profile attributes of the member based on historical member interaction data of the member e.g. describing how the member has previously interacted with content entities websites etc. associated with the online social network service based on member e mail history of the member e.g. indicating the member s use and interactions with e mails and other messages and so on.

The entities described herein may be any online entity associated with an online social network service. Examples of an entity associated with an online social network service LinkedIn include a member or a member profile page associated therewith a job posting or a job posting page associated therewith a company entity or a company page associated therewith a group entity or a group page associated therewith an educational e.g. University or school entity and or an educational page associated therewith an influencer entity or an influencer page associated therewith and so on. The content items described herein may be any online content item such as a content item associated with an online social network service. An example of a content item includes a news item an article or a publication posted in a content feed associated with an online social network service such as LinkedIn . Other examples of content items include media e.g. videos images etc. slideshows presentations documents webpages and so on. Content items include any products features or webpages associated with an online social network service such as a home page content feed and various webpages associated with various entities described above e.g. a member profile page a job posting page a company page a group page an educational page an influencer profile page and so on . As described herein influencers are members of an online social network service e.g. LinkedIn classified as influential members or having a status as influential members.

After determining that a particular content item or entity is relevant to the member the gaming module may then generate a game or quiz including a question and candidate answers based on this content item or entity. For example the gaming module may access stored attribute value pairs associated with a content item including attributes such as title author keywords abstract length received social activity signals e.g. views likes shares comments follows etc. attributes of members that have interacted with the content item and so on. Such attribute value pairs may be stored locally at for example the database illustrated in or may be stored remotely at a database data repository storage server etc. that is accessible by the gaming module via a network e.g. the Internet . The gaming module may then generate a question based on these attribute value pairs. For example given the attribute value pair shares 6 000 000 associated with a particular article A the gaming module may generate a question such as how many shares has this article received based on the attribute in the attribute value pair. For example the gaming module may insert the attribute shares into a question template such as how many attribute has this article received . The gaming module may then generate a correct answer 6 000 000 based on the value in the attribute value pair. The gaming module may generate false answers based on incorrect values e.g. 5 100 2000 etc. distinct from the value in the attribute value pair. Alternatively the gaming module may utilize both the attribute and the value in the attribute value pair to generate a question such as which one of these articles has been shared 6 million times and may generate a correct answer article A based on the title of the content item. The gaming module may generate false answers based on alternative titles e.g. titles of other content items .

Similarly the gaming module may access stored attribute value pairs associated with various entities including member profile attributes associated with members e.g. name title industry company education skills etc. job attributes associated with job postings e.g. job title company location required skills job summary etc. group attributes associated with the group entities e.g. group name membership size moderator leader identification information attributes of group members etc. company attributes associated with company entities e.g. company name industry company size company location products services attributes of employees etc. educational attributes associated with educational entities e.g. name location courses attributes of staff and students etc. influencer attributes associated with LinkedIn influencers e.g. member profile attributes of the influencer etc. . Based on such attribute value pairs the gaming module may generate the game questions and game answers as described above. For example illustrates an exemplary user interface that displays a game question associated with a game that is generated by the gaming module . For example the relevance module may have determined that the company entity Medium is relevant to a current viewing member and thus the gaming module has generated a game question correct game answer e.g. David Sze and alternative incorrect game answers based on a board member of this group entity.

According to various example embodiments after the member submits an answer to the game the gaming module will display the result and or the correct answer. Moreover the gaming module enables the member to interact with the content item or entity that was the subject of the game. For example the gaming module may allow the member to view like share or comment on the content item follow a entity post a message on the wall webpage of a relevant entity join a relevant group apply for a relevant job apply to a relevant school send a message to a relevant member endorse a relevant member for a skill connect to a relevant member and so on. For example after the member selects one of the game answers illustrated in the user interface in the gaming module may display the user interface in that displays a game result e.g. Correct and the current member score 10 . Moreover the user interface provides the current viewing member with further background information or context regarding the correct answer choice and why it is correct as well as other attributes of an entity e.g. member school company etc. that is the subject of the correct answer see . Moreover the user interface enables the current viewing member to follow the company entity Medium by selecting the Follow Medium button . Moreover if the viewing member selects the Next button the viewing member may advance to another question in the game.

In some embodiments even if the member answers a question incorrectly the gaming module will display the correct answer along with relevant background and contextual information as described above so that the current viewing member may still learn about the social network. For example the user interface in displays a game result when a member incorrectly answers the question which of the following members has the most executive management endorsements . Even though the current viewing member answered incorrectly the correct answer is displayed together with further background information or context regarding the correct answer choice and why it is correct. Moreover the current viewing member is still enabled to interact with the relevant entity associated with the correct answer e.g. by endorsing the member Jeff Weiner by clicking the Endorse button .

In some embodiments the relevance module may identify another member that is relevant to the current viewing member by for example accessing stored member profile attributes and or historical interaction data associated with the member e.g. historical log data indicating how the member has interacted e.g. clicks or views with the website content or email content of the social network . The relevance module may then generate based on the stored member profile attributes and or the historical interaction data a confidence score e.g. number within a range such as 0 to 1 0 to 10 0 to 100 etc. indicating a likelihood that the content item or entity is relevant to the member. The relevance module may then determine that the content item or entity is relevant to the member based on the generated confidence score e.g. if the generated confidence score is greater than a predetermined threshold . In the case of entities corresponding to other members the relevance module may optionally restrict the candidates for the relevant entity to only member connections of the current viewing member or member connections of a particular degree such as first degree or second degree connections . The relevance module may generate the confidence score using any known technique. For example the relevance module may train a computer based prediction model e.g. a statistical machine learning model based on various feature data e.g. member profile features site interaction data e mail interaction data etc. associated with one or more members of the online social network service in order to predict a likelihood e.g. the aforementioned confidence score that a particular member has an interest or preference in interacting with a particular content item or entity. Examples of prediction models are well known and include a logistic regression model a gradient boosted machine GBM model a Na ve Bayes model a support vector machines SVM model a decision trees model and a neural network model and will not be described in greater detail herein.

In some embodiments the relevance module may identify a particular content item or entity that is relevant to the current viewing member by for example determining that one or more attributes associated with the member match one or more attributes associated with the relevant content item or entity. For example the relevance module may determine that a particular job posting entity is relevant to the current viewing member because attributes associated with the job posting entity e.g. job title industry required skills required education location etc. match attributes associated with the current viewing member e.g. job title industry required skills required education location etc. . As another example the relevance module may determine that a particular group entity is relevant to the current viewing member because attributes associated with the group entity e.g. group title group subject keywords names in group membership list etc. match attributes associated with the current viewing member e.g. company school job title industry skills location names of member connections of the member etc. . As another example the relevance module may determine that a particular educational entity is relevant to the current viewing member because an educational attribute associated with the viewing member matches the title of the educational entity or matches the educational attributes of a predetermined number or predetermined portion of followers of the educational entity . As another example the relevance module may determine that a particular company entity is relevant to the current viewing member because a company attribute associated with the viewing member matches the title of the company entity or matches the company attributes of a predetermined number or predetermined portion of followers of the company entity .

In some embodiments the relevance module may determine a job entity that is relevant to the current viewing member by predicting a job that the current viewing member may be interested in. For example the relevance module may identify other jobs that other members with similar attributes have applied to. Instead or in addition the relevance module may identify other jobs held by other members that used to share similar attributes with the current viewing member. For example if the viewing member has the current title of assistant manager then the relevance module may identify not only the jobs associated with a similar job title attribute of assistant manager but the relevance module may also determine that other members that were previously associated with the title of assistant manager have ultimately obtained positions with the title of manager . Thus the relevance module may identify job postings associated with the job title attributes of manager as job entities that may be relevant to the current viewing member.

In some embodiments the relevance module may identify a particular entity corresponding to a second member of the online social network service that is relevant to the current viewing member by for example determining that the current viewing member and the second member have a member connection strength score satisfying a predetermined threshold. For example the relevance module may access or generate member connection strength scores indicating the strength of the connection between two members e.g. based on how much they interact with each other via messages or posts or based on how much they interact with each other s content such as via profile views or views of posts or based on how many member connections they share or based on how many member profile attributes they share or based on similar interactions such as clicks or views with online content such as a website associated with an online social network service etc. . The relevance module may then select a subset of members having member connection strength scores falling within a predetermined range and select the relevant member from that subset. For example the relevance module may select a subset of members having very high member connection strength scores e.g. 0.8 out of the range 0 to 1 in order to identify the members having the strongest connection to the current viewing member. As another example the relevance module may select a subset of members having intermediate member connection strength scores e.g. between 0.5 0.8 out of the range 0 to 1 in order to identify members having an intermediate connection to the current viewing member. This may be beneficial since the current viewing member may be less intrigued or interested in learning about their closest friends. In some embodiments the relevance module may optionally restrict the candidates for the second member to only member connections of the current viewing member or member connections of a particular degree such as first degree or second degree connections .

In some embodiments the relevance module may identify a particular entity corresponding to a second member of the online social network service that is relevant to the current viewing member by for example determining that the current viewing member and the second member have a member similarity score satisfying a predetermined threshold and selecting the relevant member from that subset. For example the relevance module may access or generate member similarity scores indicating how similar two members are e.g. based on how many member profile attributes they share or based on similar interactions such as clicks or views with online content such as a website associated with an online social network service etc. . The relevance module may then select a subset of members having member similarity scores falling within a predetermined range. For example the relevance module may select a subset of members having very high similarity scores e.g. 0.8 out of the range 0 to 1 in order to identify the most similar members to the current viewing member. As another example the relevance module may select a subset of members having intermediate similarity scores e.g. between 0.5 0.8 out of the range 0 to 1 in order to identify members somewhat similar to the current viewing member. This may be beneficial since the current viewing member may be less intrigued or interested in learning about members that are just like them. In some embodiments the relevance module may optionally restrict the candidates for the second member to only member connections of the current viewing member or member connections of a particular degree such as first degree or second degree connections .

In some embodiments the relevance module may identify a particular entity corresponding to a second member of the online social network service that is relevant to the current viewing member by for example determining that the member and the second member have not communicated e.g. by posting on each other s walls sending messages to each other via the social network etc. during a predetermined time interval e.g. the past day week month six months year etc. . In some embodiments the relevance module may optionally restrict the candidates for the second member to only member connections of the current viewing member or member connections of a particular degree such as first degree or second degree connections .

In some embodiments the relevance module may identify a particular entity corresponding to a second member of the online social network service that is relevant to the current viewing member by for example accessing the member s electronic calendar information appointment information email information event information etc. in order to identify a second member that the viewing member will likely meet that day or that week e.g. a second member included as an invitee in a scheduled meeting . In some embodiments the relevance module may optionally restrict the candidates for the second member to only member connections of the current viewing member or member connections of a particular degree such as first degree or second degree connections .

In some embodiments the relevance module may identify a particular entity corresponding to a second member of the online social network service that is relevant to the current viewing member by for example determining that the second member is associated with a recent e.g. during the past day week month etc. network update event e.g. changing jobs a work anniversary a birthday getting engaged or married having a child etc. posted on a content feed of the online social network service. In some embodiments the relevance module may optionally restrict the candidates for the second member to only member connections of the current viewing member or member connections of a particular degree such as first degree or second degree connections .

As described above the gaming module may enable the member to interact with the relevant content item or entity that is the subject of a game question after the member answers that question. For example if the relevance module determines that a particular content item is relevant to a member then the gaming module may enable the member to interact with the content item by displaying a user interface element to enable the member to view like share or comment on the content item. For example illustrates an exemplary user interface that enables a member to share e.g. in their member profile page or in a content feed associated with an online social network service a particular article I am here by choice by selecting the Share Article button . The user interface also identifies other members of the social network e.g. member connections of the viewing member in the user interface area that have shared this particular article e.g. to encourage the viewing member to share the article . The user interface also enables the member to post a comment in connection with the shared article such as by typing into a keypad user interface portion .

As another example if the relevance module determines that the particular entity e.g. another member a job posting a group entity a company entity an influencer entity an educational entity etc. is relevant to the member the gaming module may enable the member to interact with the entity by displaying a user interface element enabling the member to follow the entity e.g. see the Follow Entity button in the user interface in . In some embodiments the gaming module may first determine that the current viewing member is not already following the entity before displaying such a Follow user interface element. As another example the gaming module may enable the member to interact with the entity by displaying a keypad and a Post button enabling the member to type and post a message on a profile page associated with the relevant entity such as a member profile page a job posting page a company page a group page an influencer profile page an educational institution page etc. . In some embodiments the gaming module may pre generate a draft message e.g. Can I join your group in the message preview area so that the member can simply select a Post button to post the pre generated draft message on the profile page associated with the relevant entity.

In some embodiments if the relevance module determines that a particular entity corresponding to another member of the social network service is relevant to the viewing member then the gaming module may enable the member to interact with the other member by displaying a message user interface enabling the member to transmit a message e.g. e mail chat message text message social network message such as an LinkedIn InMail etc. to the other member. For example illustrates a message user interface that enables the member to generate a message in the message preview area e.g. by typing in the keypad and by selecting the Send button to transmit the message. In some embodiments the gaming module may pre generate a draft message e.g. How have you been in the message preview area so that the member can simply select the Send button to send the pre generated draft message. As another example the gaming module may enable the member to interact with the other member by displaying a user interface element enabling the member to endorse the other member for a specific skill e.g. see the Endorse button in the user interface in . As another example the gaming module may enable the member to interact with the other member by displaying a user interface element enabling the member to connect to the other member.

In some embodiments if the relevance module determines that a particular entity corresponding to a job posting listing is relevant to the viewing member then the gaming module may enable the member to interact with the job posting listing by displaying a user interface element enabling the member to save or apply for a job associated with the job posting. For example the gaming module may redirect the viewing member to an externally hosted job posting and or utilize profile attributes of the member to automatically fill out an electronic application form for the job.

In some embodiments the gaming module may generate more intricate game questions and or answers that the current viewing member may find more engaging by identifying and including references to other attributes contents entities etc. that may be shared by the current viewing member. For example as described above if the relevance module identifies a particular group entity company entity or school entity that is relevant to the current viewing member the gaming module may generate questions based on generic attributes associated with these entities e.g. which one of these companies has the highest stock price which one of these schools has the largest endowment etc. as described above. However the gaming module may generate a more engaging question and answers by referencing other members of the online social network e.g. member connections of the current viewing member that are associated with member profile attributes matching these group entities company entities school entities etc. For example the gaming module may generate a question such as which one of your friends works at company XYZ where the correct answer corresponds to the appropriate member and where the incorrect answers may correspond to other member connections of the member or a question such as your friend ABC went to undergrad at which of the following where the correct answer corresponds to the appropriate school entity and where the incorrect answer may correspond to other school entities . Thus in some embodiments the gaming module may identify another member e.g. a member connection of the current viewing member that is associated with an attribute e.g. company school etc. matching an attribute associated with the underlying relevant content item or entity e.g. a group entity company entity school entity etc. . In this way the gaming module may generate the game question or correct game answer based on information identifying the other member. In such case after the current viewing member answers the question the gaming module may enable the viewing member to interact not only with the relevant content item or entity but also with the relevant member connection.

In some embodiments if the relevance module identifies a particular member as being relevant to a current viewing member e.g. because the current viewing member is planning to meet the identified member the gaming module may generate more engaging question and answers by referencing other attributes of the identified member that may be shared by the current viewing member. For example instead of a question such as which one of your meeting participants has received the most endorsements which does not explicitly incorporate attributes of the identified relevant member that are shared by the current viewing member the gaming module may instead generate a question such as which one of your meeting participants went to the same school as you . In such case after the current viewing member answers the question the gaming module may enable the viewing member to interact not only with the relevant member but also with a corresponding entity e.g. the shared school .

In some embodiments after a game result is displayed to a member e.g. see user interface in which displays a score and a comparison of the score with high scores obtained by others the gaming module may enable the member may share their score with their social network. For example if the member selects the Share button illustrated in then the gaming module may display the user interface in that enables the member to generate a message in the message preview area e.g. by typing in the keypad and by selecting the Share button to transmit the message. In some embodiments the gaming module may pre generate a draft message e.g. Check out my new high score in the message preview area so that the member can simply select the Share button to post the pre generated draft message e.g. to content feeds viewable by other members of the online social network service .

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied 1 on a non transitory machine readable medium or 2 in a transmission signal or hardware implemented modules. A hardware implemented module is a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware implemented module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware implemented module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware implemented module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware implemented module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware implemented module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware implemented module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily or transitorily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware implemented modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware implemented modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware implemented modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware implemented modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware implemented module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware implemented module at a different instance of time.

Hardware implemented modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware implemented modules. Accordingly the described hardware implemented modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware implemented modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware implemented modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware implemented modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware implemented modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware implemented modules have access. For example one hardware implemented module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware implemented module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware implemented modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. Application Program Interfaces APIs . 

Example embodiments may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Example embodiments may be implemented using a computer program product e.g. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers.

A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

In example embodiments operations may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method operations can also be performed by and apparatus of example embodiments may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In embodiments deploying a programmable computing system it will be appreciated that that both hardware and software architectures require consideration. Specifically it will be appreciated that the choice of whether to implement certain functionality in permanently configured hardware e.g. an ASIC in temporarily configured hardware e.g. a combination of software and a programmable processor or a combination of permanently and temporarily configured hardware may be a design choice. Below are set out hardware e.g. machine and software architectures that may be deployed in various example embodiments.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard or a touch sensitive display screen a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions or data structures. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM and Digital Versatile Disc Read Only Memory DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium. The instructions may be transmitted using the network interface device and any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. WiFi LTE and WiMAX networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible media to facilitate communication of such software.

Although an embodiment has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

