---

title: Methods, systems, and computer readable media for controlling presentation and selection of objects that are digital images depicting subjects
abstract: The subject matter described herein is directed to controlling presentation and selection of objects that are digital images depicting subjects. According to one aspect, a plurality of objects is presented via a presentation device having a screen. Each object is associated with at least one other object of plurality of objects and is a digital image of a subject. A first object presented is selected in response to a first selection event associated with the first object. A second object non-adjacent to the first object is determined based on a predefined relationship associating the first object with the second object, wherein the second object is on-screen or off-screen. The second is presented via the presentation device on-screen and adjacent to the first object in response to the determination. An indication of the predefined relationship is also presented.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09569072&OS=09569072&RS=09569072
owner: Scenera Technologies, LLC
number: 09569072
owner_city: Portsmouth
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160108
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 682 148 titled Methods Systems and Computer Readable Media For Controlling Presentation and Selection of Objects That Are Digital Images Depicting Subjects filed on Apr. 9 2015 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 235 336 issued Jan. 12 2016 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 215 250 titled Methods Systems and Computer Readable Media For Controlling Presentation and Selection of Objects That Are Digital Images Depicting Subjects filed on Mar. 17 2014 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 015 635 issued Apr. 21 2015 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 246 215 titled Methods Systems and Computer Readable Media For Controlling Presentation and Selection of Objects That Are Digital Images Depicting Subjects filed on Sep. 27 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 694 921 issued Apr. 8 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 956 920 titled Methods Systems and Computer Readable Media For Controlling Presentation and Selection of Objects That Are Digital Images Depicting Subjects filed on Dec. 14 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 037 425 issued Oct. 11 2011 the entire disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein.

Digital images such as photographs taken using digital cameras scanned images and images generated with the aid of a computer often contain multiple subjects. For example a digital image may depict multiple people places or objects.

In order to facilitate later viewing or interpretation of digital images it may be desirable to associate with the digital images information concerning the subjects depicted in the images. For example if an image is a digital photograph it may be desirable to associate with the digital photograph information concerning the subjects depicted in the photograph. In addition when using a digital camera to take a photograph it may be desirable to pre associate with the photograph information concerning subjects that will be depicted in the photograph.

Current digital photograph editing software allows manual annotation of photographs. However manual annotation is labor intensive and is therefore undesirable when large numbers of photographs require annotation. Current digital camera user interfaces allow the user to automatically annotate digital photographs with time and date information. However there is no easy method to navigate and select subjects of a digital photograph either prior to or after creation of the photograph.

Accordingly there exist a need for methods systems and computer readable media for controlling presentation and selection of objects that are digital images depicting subjects.

The subject matter described herein includes methods systems and computer readable media for controlling presentation and selection of objects that are digital images depicting subjects. According to one aspect the subject matter described herein includes a method for controlling presentation and selection of objects that are digital images depicting subjects. The method includes presenting via a presentation device having a screen a plurality of objects. Each of at least one object is associated with at least one other object of the plurality of objects. Each of the objects is a digital image depicting a subject. A portion of the plurality of objects is off screen. The method further includes selecting a first object presented in response to a first selection event associated with the first object. The method further includes determining a second object based on a predefined relationship associating the first object with the second object. The second object is at least one of on screen and off screen. The method further includes presenting via the presentation device the second object on screen and adjacent to the first object in response to the determination and an indication of the predefined relationship.

According to another aspect of the subject matter described herein a system for controlling presentation and selection of objects that are digital images depicting subjects is provided. The system includes an object selection rendering subsystem for presenting via a presentation device having a screen a plurality of objects. Each of at least one object is associated with at least one other object of the plurality of objects. Each of the objects is a digital image depicting a subject. A portion of the plurality of images is off screen. The system further includes a navigation and selection subsystem for selecting a first object presented in response to a first selection event associated with the first object. The system further includes an object dataset access component for determining using an object dataset a second object based on a predefined relationship associating the first object with the second object. The second object is at least one of on screen and off screen. The object selection rendering subsystem is adapted to present via the presentation device the second object on screen and adjacent to the first object in the response to the determination and an indication of the predefined relationship.

According to another aspect of the subject matter described herein a system for controlling presentation and selection of objects that are digital images depicting subjects is provided. The system includes means for presenting via a presentation device having a screen a plurality of objects. Each of at least one object is associated with at least one other object of the plurality of objects. Each object is a digital image depicting a subject. A portion of the plurality of objects is off screen. The system further includes means for selecting a first object presented in response to a first selection event associated with the first object. The system further includes means for determining a second object based on a predefined relationship associating the first object with the second object. The second object is at least one of on screen and off screen. The system further includes means for presenting via the presentation device the second object on screen and adjacent to the first object in response to the determination and an indication of the predefined relationship.

According to another aspect a computer readable medium embodying a computer program executable by a machine for controlling presentation and selection of objects that are digital images depicting subjects is provided. The computer program includes executable instructions for presenting via a presentation device having a screen a plurality of objects wherein each of at least one object is associated with at least one other object in the plurality of objects and a portion of the plurality of objects is off screen. Each object is a digital image depicting a subject. The computer program further includes instructions for selecting a first object presented in response to a first selection event associated with the first object. The computer program further includes instructions for determining a second object based on a predefined relationship associating the first object with the second object. The second object is at least one of on screen and off screen. The computer program further includes instructions for presenting via a presentation device the second object on screen and adjacent to the first object in response to the determination and an indication of the predefined relationship.

The subject matter described herein includes methods systems and computer readable media for controlling presentation and selection of objects that are digital images depicting subjects. The following definitions are used herein to describe certain aspects of the subject matter described herein.

According to one aspect the subject matter described herein includes a method for controlling presentation and selection of objects that are represented by digital image subjects. is a flow chart illustrating an exemplary method for controlling presentation and selection of objects that are digital images depicting subjects according to an embodiment of the subject matter described herein. Referring to in block a plurality of objects arranged in a plurality of vectors is presented via a presentation device wherein each object in a second vector is associated with an object in a first vector and wherein each object is a digital image depicting a subject. For example objects that are digital image thumbnails of subjects depictable in digital photographs digital video frames computer generated images or scanned images may be presented in constructs referred to herein as vectors. Examples of presentation of objects in vectors will be described in detail below. Each object in one vector may be associated with an object in another vector. For example one vector may contain objects representing one generation in a family and another vector may contain objects representing a subsequent generation.

The subject matter described herein includes means for presenting via a presentation device a plurality of objects arranged in a plurality of vectors wherein each object in a second vector is associated with an object in the first vector and wherein each object is digital image depicting a subject. For example in which illustrates a camera and exemplary software components of a camera software that controls presentation and selection of digital images may be implemented in operating system of camera or in an application that runs on operating system . Other software that may reside on camera is a communication client which communicates with another device and photo files which may be the digital images for which subjects are identified. illustrates exemplary components of an object presentation and control system according to an embodiment of the subject matter described herein. Referring to an object selection rendering subsystem performs the operations listed in block of . For example object selection rendering subsystem performs rendering for object selection and control. Object selection rendering subsystem renders information for each subject by retrieving media objects and subject information including image thumbnails from object dataset . In one implementation the subject information retrieved for each object may be associated as metadata with a digital image that depicts each subject. An object dataset access component may facilitate extraction of objects and associated information from object dataset . Object dataset may be implemented using a hierarchical data store that stores data for each object to be presented and or selected.

In the context of usage within a digital camera object presentation and selection control system may be implemented as an application that creates an instance of object selection and presentation control. is a block diagram illustrating an instance of an object selection and presentation control that may be created by system according to an embodiment of the subject matter described herein. Referring to object selection and presentation control instance may include a graphical presentation of objects that are digital images depicting subjects where the objects are arranged in vectors. In the illustrated example each vector A D is a column of objects and that are digital images depicting subjects. In the illustrated example vector A represents parent objects vector B represents sibling objects vector C represents children objects and vector D represents grandchildren objects. In one exemplary implementation each vector A D may be a circular construct with a portion of the objects in each construct visible on a display a portion of the objects in each construct not visible on the display and where visible and non visible portions in each construct are linked together such that a last displayed object in the construct will be followed by the display of a first displayed object in the construct in response to a user navigation event. Using vector A as an example objects and are visible to a user. Other objects may be off screen such that when user navigation event is detected for example actuation of one of keys and off screen objects in vector A become visible and currently displayed objects in vector A may be scrolled off screen.

When object selection and presentation control instance is instantiated object data application programming interface API component illustrated in may load object selection and presentation control instance with information related to each object. Calls to API may be processed by object dataset access component and object dataset may be loaded with each subject s information including relationship information. System may call object data API component passing an object e.g. an image thumbnail of a subject relationship information for other related objects and a correlation ID for the object. At a later time when object selections are retrieved by system the correlation IDs may be used by system to identify selected objects. Other subject information may be stored in object dataset . For example as will be described in detail below media phrases and synthesized speech may be stored for each object to support speech and other media functions associated with object presentation and selection.

Object dataset may include any suitable structure that allows relationships between objects to be defined and that allows storage or association with information identifying the subjects corresponding to each object. In one example dataset may be implemented as a hierarchical dataset. In the hierarchical dataset each record in dataset may be a node in a tree hierarchy. Each node may contain a number of items examples of which will now be described.

One data item that may be included in each node is an image thumbnail. The image thumbnail may be presented by object selection and presentation control instance . Subjects may be selected by visual recognition of the corresponding object displayed by object selection and presentation control instance . Objects are examples of image thumbnails that may be stored in object dataset . Another data item that may be stored in a record of object dataset is a record pointer or record pointer array which can be used to reference other node references in object dataset . It is these nodes and references to other nodes within a node that can be used to form a relationship hierarchy.

Yet another data item that may be stored in a record in dataset is a node type or node type array. This array can store an indicator for each record pointer with the following values. If the value of node type current subject record number is peer node subject then the reference node is peer of the subject in the current node. Subject peers are considered in the same generation as the subject. If the value of node type current subject record number is child node then the subject in the reference node is a logical child of the subject in the current node. Child subjects are considered to be in the next generation.

Yet another data item that may be stored in each record in object dataset is a relation type or relation type array. This array holds an indicator for each record pointer with the following values If the value of node type current subject record number is immutable then the subject in the reference node has an immutable relationship to the peer or child being referenced. An example of an immutable relationship is the relation between a father and a biological son. If the value of node type current subject record number is coincidental then the subject in the referenced node has a coincidental relationship. An example of a coincidental relationship is the relationship between a father and a stepson. Each level of nodes in dataset may represent a generation.

In one exemplary implementation subjects in the hierarchy in the same logical generation are displayed in the same column vector in object selection and presentation control instance . In the example illustrated in vector A corresponds to a first display column in object selection and presentation control instance and may contain objects in a first generation. Vector A may contain root node of the hierarchy of nodes stored in object dataset . Vector B may contain a subordinate generation of objects. In object selection and presentation control instance illustrated in each subordinate generation in the hierarchy is displayed to the right of the previous generation. However any suitable arrangement can be used to illustrate relationships between objects. For example subordinate generations could be stored to the left of above or below previous generations.

If an object is a child node then that object is considered to be in the next subordinate generation relative to the current generation. In objects and are children of object . Solid lines and represent an immutable relationship between object and object . Object has a coincidental relationship such as marriage with object as indicated by dotted line .

In object selection and presentation control instance nodes and would be displayed in the next adjacent column to the column where objects and are displayed. The relationship between the nodes would be dictated by the hierarchy in object dataset . In object selection and presentation control instance illustrated in objects and in vector B may be the next subordinate generation of objects in relation to objects and stored in vector A.

Objects and are children of object . Solid lines and represent immutable relationships between object and objects and . Similarly objects and are children of object . Solid lines and represent immutable relationships between object and objects and .

One data item that may be represented in object dataset is a relationship state indicator that indicates whether the referenced node is an immutable relationship node or a coincidental relationship node. Object dataset may determine whether the selected node is a coincidental relationship node based on the relationship state indicator during the processing of the selection event as will be described in detail below.

The references stored in each record in dataset determine relationships between related nodes and their respective generations. The relationships may be used to control presentation of objects and affect selection operations performed using object selection and presentation control instance .

Object dataset access component may return an image thumbnail for each object in database for display in the display area of object selection and presentation control instance . In object selection and presentation control instance appears on a display screen on a digital camera. Actuators and may allow a user to navigate between displayed objects. Actuator may allow a user to select a displayed object. In the illustrated example a selection cursor indicated by a bold dashed box appears around object . When the user presses actuator the first time that the selection cursor is on an object that object may be selected.

Object selection and presentation control instance allows a user to select subjects for a photograph before or after the photograph is taken. In one implementation a camera may be pre loaded with images and relationships of potential subjects.

Although in the example illustrated in objects are arranged in vertical vectors any suitable arrangement for displaying objects may be used. For example members of a given generation can be arranged in a horizontal direction with additional generations displayed in adjacent horizontal rows above or below the initial horizontal row. In addition in a three dimensional space an initial layout direction for the first vector may be along any display vector in the three dimensional space with the adjacent display vectors being arranged adjacent and parallel to the first display vector.

Returning to in block a method for selecting and controlling display of objects that are digital images depicting subjects includes selecting a first object presented in a first vector in response to a first selection event associated with the first object. For example in object in vector A may be selected by placing the cursor over object using selection controls or and actuating selection actuator . Accordingly a system for controlling selection and presentation of objects that are digital images depicting subjects includes means for selecting first object presented in the first vector in response to a first selection event associated with the first object. For example navigation and selection subsystem illustrated in may process navigation and selection events implemented using object selection and presentation control instance illustrated in . Navigation and selection subsystem may include a navigation component that processes navigation events simple and hierarchical selection components and that process selection events and voice and cursor pad input components and that respectively process voice and tactile input for selection and or navigation. Navigation and selection subsystem may output selection events to an associated application that has created and is using an instance of the control for the selection of subjects.

In actuators and may be implemented using hardware buttons. In an alternate implementation the actuators may be displayed on an LCD panel and may be activated by touch. Other kinds of input devices may be used to provide actuation selection and navigation events. Exemplary input devices suitable for use with embodiments of the subject matter described herein include a personal computer based pointed device such as a mouse or a joystick. On a mobile phone a cursor and hardware or software implemented actuators to control selection of objects using a cursor may be used utilized. In addition as will be described in more detail below media phrase recognition may be used to select objects.

In object selection and presentation control instance may support at least the following modes of selection simple selection mode and hierarchical selection mode. Simple selection mode will be described in detail below. Hierarchical selection allows multiple objects to be selected in object selection and presentation control instance without having to navigate each object and select the object. Hierarchical selection may begin with selection of an initial object. The initial object can be located at any position in the display area of object selection and presentation control instance .

Hierarchical selection may begin when object selection and presentation control instance receives via cursor pad input component an emphasis selection event. In the context of a digital camera as shown in an emphasis selection event may be generated by pressing selection actuator component twice in rapid succession.

An emphasis selection event may be similar to a double click event that is generated using a pointing device of a personal computer. Some cameras may also support a press and hold function by selection actuator component to generate the emphasis selection event. In this case the button is pressed and held in the pressed state until a time threshold is exceeded and the button is released. Some cameras may provide tactile or audible feedback when the hold time threshold is exceeded to notify the user that the emphasis selection function has been invoked.

Upon receipt of input cursor pad input component forwards the emphasis selection event to hierarchical selection component for processing. The selection event contains an x and y location of the selection cursor within object selection and presentation control instance of . From the x and y location of the selection cursor simple selection component queries object dataset via object dataset access component for the object that is displayed at the cursor location. Hierarchical selection component causes object dataset access component to set the state of the object as selected. Object dataset access component causes object rendering subsystem to redraw the selected state of the object in object selection and presentation control instance . The object then appears as selected as shown in by object of . In the lines crossing object indicate selection.

In order to select an object using object selection and presentation control instance the selection cursor is positioned in the desired object cell. The selection cursor is initially positioned at a default cell location in object selection and presentation control instance . The default cell may be any cell within object selection and presentation control instance . The initial position of the selection cursor may be set programmatically before object selection and presentation control instance is displayed based on a default or specified condition. An example condition may be the detection of a context of a photographic occasion. For example if it is determined that the event is uncle Joe s birthday then the selection cursor may be initially positioned on an object cell that contains a digital image of uncle Joe.

The selection cursor is moved in response to navigational events from navigation actuators and . Each navigation actuator and may graphically indicate the direction of movement as part of the presentation of each actuator. For example navigation actuator points in the downward direction. When this actuator is pressed the cursor will be moved in the downward direction to the next object displayed by object selection and presentation control instance . If the cursor is already at the bottom edge of the display then the vector in which the cursor is positioned will be scrolled if there are additional objects in the vector that are not currently displayed. As described above each vector A D may be a circular construct so that navigation events in the same direction will eventually cause the display of objects to wrap around and objects that scrolled off screen will be displayed again.

An upward navigation event from a navigation actuator works in the same manner at the top of the display as downward navigation event at the bottom of the display. When the cursor is at the top of a vector and an upward navigation event is received the objects in the vector where the cursor is located will be scrolled in the downward direction.

Left or right navigation may be implemented differently than vertical navigation. The cursor may be moved in left and right directions upon receipt of left and right navigation event from left and right navigation actuators and . If the cursor is already on the left edge of the display and if additional vectors are logically available to the left edge of the left edge vector then the entire contents of object selection and presentation control instance may be scrolled in a right direction introducing a new column on the left. Using the example of when this type of scrolling is actuated a grandparent column may be introduced on the left edge of the display and the grandchildren column may be moved off the display on the right.

When a right navigation event if received the selection cursor may be moved to the right one cell in object selection and presentation control instance . If the cursor is already at the right edge of the display and if additional vectors are logically available to the right of the right edge vector then the entire contents of object selection and presentation control instance may be scrolled in a left direction introducing a new column on the right. Using the example illustrated in when this type of scrolling is actuated a great grandchildren column will be introduced on the right edge and the parent column will move off the display on the left.

The supported cursor movements will allow the selection cursor to be positioned on any object displayed in object selection and presentation control instance . In addition the movements allow off screen objects to be moved on screen.

Returning to in block a method for controlling presentation and selection of objects that are digital images depicting subjects includes determining a second object non adjacent to the first object based on a predefined relationship associating the first object with the second object. Referring to object may be non adjacent to object to . The relationship between objects and may be stored in object dataset illustrated in . A system for controlling presentation and selection of objects that are digital images representing subjects includes means for determining a second object non adjacent to the first object based on a predefined relationship associating the first object with the second object. As described above dataset may contain a hierarchy of objects being displayed for selection in object selection and presentation control instance . Within dataset the object hierarchy may be stored as a tree. In a tree organization each node in the tree can maintain references to other nodes in the tree. In dataset each reference may contain additional data items that provide information about relationships between objects.

One data item that may be included in each node is a state indicator that indicates whether the referenced node is a child node or a peer node. If a node is a child node then that node is considered to be in the next subordinate generation. In object selection and presentation control instance this node will be displayed in the next adjacent column that is displayed parallel and adjacent to the parent column as directed by object dataset . For example objects in vector B is displayed to the right of objects in vector A in object selection and presentation control instance indicating that objects in vector B are children of objects in vector A. Stated differently objects in vector B represent the next subordinate generation in relation to objects in vector A. Peer nodes are displayed in the same vector in object selection and presentation control instance .

Another data item that may be stored in a node reference in dataset is a relationship state indicator that indicates whether the referenced node is an immutable relationship node or coincidental relationship node. Object dataset determines whether a selected node is a coincidental node based on the relationship state indicator during the processing of a selection event as described above.

The references stored with each node determine relationships between related nodes between generations. The relationships may be used to both display and affect selection operations using object selection and presentation control instance .

Returning to in block a method for controlling presentation and selection of objects that are digital images depicting subjects includes presenting the second object in a second vector adjacent to the first vector in response to the determination. A system for controlling presentation and selection of objects that are digital images depicting subjects may include means for performing the operations recited in block . Referring to when objects are first displayed in object selection and presentation control instance the objects need not be presented in any particular order. However an initial display order can be established prior to displaying object selection and presentation control instance . An advantage of providing an initial display order would be the proper placement of a potential first object on the screen. It is not until the first object is selected by emphasis selection that order and layout become important.

In block illustrated in an object comprising a digital image representing a subject was selected using emphasis selection. When the object is selected using emphasis selection a selection and a subsequent action may occur. In object selection and presentation control instance the subsequent action contains the following steps a sorting and positioning step and a subsequent additive selection step.

Upon receipt of input cursor pad input component forwards the emphasis selection event to hierarchical selection component for processing. The selection event contains an x and y location of the selection cursor within object selection and presentation control instance of . From this x and y location of the selection cursor simple selection component queries object dataset via object dataset access component for the object that is displayed at the cursor s location. Hierarchical selection component calls object dataset access component to set the state of the object as selected. Object dataset access component then calls object sort component . Object sort component examines the currently selected node or nodes in the relationship hierarchy and assigns the nodes related to the currently selected hierarchy of nodes to be displayed in positions in object selection and presentation control instance that are adjacent to the first selected object. Object dataset access component calls object rendering subsystem to redraw the selected state of the object cell in object selection and presentation control instance . In the example illustrated in object which was not adjacent to object in is moved to be adjacent to object .

Once sorting has been completed object dataset calls object rendering subsystem to redraw the modified portions of the display area of object selection and presentation control instance including objects in new positions selection emphasis where cells are selected and the selection cursor.

When selection actuator is subsequently invoked for emphasis selection the selection sort and display processes are again invoked. shows the result of an additional cycle of the selection process. After the additional cycle object is selected.

Two embodiments with respect to the object selection process will now be described. Common to both embodiments of the selection process is the establishment of an initial selection object. This object is selected at the beginning of the selection process and defines the root node and the relationship hierarchy. From this root node subsequent nodes are selected by traversing the relationship hierarchy and selecting nodes in each succeeding level of the relationship hierarchy.

Selection with respect to coincidental relationship peer objects and coincidental relationship children objects will now be discussed with regard to first and second embodiments. The first embodiment allows automatic selection of coincidental relationship peers and children objects in the relationship hierarchy when immutable peers and children objects in the relationship hierarchy are selected.

When a hierarchical selection begins and progresses the selection processes that occur will be described with regard to . depicts selection schematically when automatic selection of the coincidental relationship peers and children subjects is in use. Each selection rectangle indicates that the result after an emphasis selection cycle.

In object has a coincidental peer relationship to object . This coincidental peer relationship is shown by dotted connecting line . Selection rectangle shows that object is selected when an emphasis selection is invoked on object . That is object is selected and the coincidental relationship peer object is also automatically selected.

When emphasis selection is invoked again on object the result is shown in selection rectangle and objects and are added to the selection. Object is also a coincidental relationship object with respect to object as indicated by dotted line . Accordingly multiple user interactions associated with the same object may automatically select related objects. For example when emphasis selection is invoked again on object the result is shown in selection rectangle and objects and are added to the selection.

The second selection embodiment does not perform automatic selection of coincidental relationship peers and children objects in the relationship hierarchy when immutable peers and children objects in the relationship hierarchy are selected.

In object has a coincidental peer relationship with object . This peer relationship is shown by the dotted connecting line . Selection rectangle shows the objects selected when an emphasis selection is invoked on object . In the illustrated example rectangle indicates that when object is selected coincidental relationship peer object is not also selected.

When emphasis selection is invoked again on object the result is shown in selection rectangle . Coincidental relationship peer object has now been selected.

When emphasis selection is invoked again on object the result is shown in selection rectangle . The children relationship objects and have been selected while coincidental relationship peer object to child node has not been selected.

When emphasis selection is invoked again on object the result is shown in selection rectangle . Coincidental relationship peer object to child node is added to the selection.

When emphasis selection is invoked again on object the result is shown in selection rectangle and objects and are added to the selection.

As shown by allowing automatic selection of coincidental relationship objects saves steps in the selection process over a given set of objects. In some cases however more granular selection may de desired. In those cases automatic selection can be turned off or either inhibited completely through settings of object selection and presentation control instance .

Because the hierarchical selection process is an additive process once an object has been selected it remains selected until the entire selection is cleared. Clearing of a selection may be invoked by a clear all function implemented by object selection and presentation control instance . Individual objects may be deselected by moving the selection cursor to a selected cell and invoking a simple selection using selection actuator . The cell then becomes deselected but the selection of other selected cells remains unaffected.

When simple selection is used a single object cell at the selection cursor upon receipt of the selection event is selected. If the cell is currently already selected the selection event will deselect the cell. Use of simple selection is optimal when small numbers of objects are to be selected or a larger selection of objects needs to be pruned or trimmed by a small number of objects.

Simple selection occurs when a simple selection event is captured by cursor pad input component of . Cursor pad input component passes the event to simple selection component for processing. The selection event contains and x and y location of the selection cursor within object selection and presentation control instance of . From this x and y location of the selection cursor simple selection component queries object dataset access component for the object that is displayed at the cursor location. Simple selection component then determines if the object and the cursor had been previously selected. In object is enclosed by the selection cursor and is selected. Object of shows the same object in the cell but the cell is not selected.

If an object is in the selected state when a simple selection event is received the object is deselected by simple selection component . In order to deselect an object simple selection component calls object database access component to update the selection state of the object in object dataset to deselected. Object dataset access component calls object rendering subsystem to redraw the selection state of the object in object selection and presentation control instance .

If an object is not in the selected state when a simple selection event is received the object is selected by simple selection component . In order to select the object simple selection component calls object dataset access component to update the selected state of the object. Object dataset access component calls object rendering subsystem to redraw the selection state of the object cell in object selection and presentation control instance . When simple selection is used subsequent sorting and positioning in adjacent columns may not be performed.

In the examples described above selection of objects occurs through tactile events. In an alternate implementation selection may occur through media recognition such as voice recognition. For example object dataset may be preloaded with a media phrase representing each object. If the object is a digital image of a person the media phrase may be recorded speech of the person or a media phrase identifying the person by name. In one example voice prints may be recorded. A voice print is an encoded utterance of speech that can be compared to an utterance from a human subject to determine or identify the human subject. When voice identification of subjects is used dataset may be loaded with voice prints for each object. The voice prints for each object may be added to object dataset along with the image thumbnail and any metadata associated with each object.

When a microphone on the camera not shown captures an utterance the utterance is recorded in memory. A voice event containing a reference to the utterance is presented to object selection and presentation control instance via voice input component . Voice input component compares the utterance to voice prints in object dataset and determines that the utterance matches a voice print for an object in object dataset . If a match is found in dataset voice input component passes a reference to the object to simple selection component with an indication to mark the object as selected. Voice recognition of an object may result in selection of the object. In order to avoid oscillation between selection and de selection an object may not be deselected as a result of voice recognition.

Thus when voice or other media phrase recognition is used a camera may be activated prior to taking a photograph and voice recognition may be used to pre select objects corresponding to subjects that may be depicted in the photograph.

In another enhancement of the subject matter described herein a camera may include a speech synthesis system than when called with text data converts the data to speech output. Using this output mechanism object selection and presentation control instance can be enhanced so that when control instance is rendered visually on the camera s display the speech synthesis system can also audibly enumerate a list of displayed or select objects.

The subject matter described herein can be further enhanced by adding a mechanism as disclosed in a commonly assigned co pending patent application entitled Methods Systems and Computer Readable Media for Associating Information with a Digital Image the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The commonly assigned co pending patent application discloses in one example a method for automatically identifying family members in a photograph using metadata in the photograph and a genealogy database. Thus if objects displayed in object selection and presentation control instance are people dataset may store genealogical relationships between the people to facilitate selection of subjects to be included in a digital image. If the objects being displayed are goods or services such as automobile makes and models dataset may store relationships between automobile makes and models to facilitate identification of image subjects. Similarly if the objects displayed in a photograph are places dataset may store relationships between places to facilitate identification of places in the photograph.

Relationship information stored in dataset can be used to customize the enumeration of subjects to be contextually sensitive to the photographer. For example the relationships displayed may be displayed from the viewpoint of the photographer based on the photographer s relationship to each object in dataset .

Continuing with the speech synthesis example during the object control display rendering process object rendering subsystem of may call an internal object speech rendering component not shown to enumerate in an audio stream a list of selected objects. Object speech rendering component starting at the root node selected in the database may search for an object that matches the name of the photographer.

If the photographer is not found to be an object in object dataset then the photographer has no known relationship to the objects in the database. In this case the photographer s relationship is assumed to be unrelated to the objects and the speech output stream is generated using the names of the objects but no relationship information is included in the speech output stream. If the photographer is an object in dataset object speech rendering component using dataset determines the relationships of each object to the photographer and uses this information in each subject s name in building the speech output stream. In this case the speech stream is personalized to the photographer allowing the photographer to understand not only each object but the object s relationship to the root node. An example will demonstrate this enhancement. In the example dataset may contain the following information 

As described above one potential use for the subject matter described herein is automatically associating metadata with a digital image. For example metadata associated with objects selected in object selection and presentation control instance may be extracted from object dataset . The extracted metadata may be automatically associated with an image in which the subjects represented by the first and second objects are depicted.

The subject matter described herein for controlling presentation and selection of objects representing digital image subjects may be implemented on any suitable device capable of storing creating or displaying a digital image in which it is desirable to characterize subjects. Examples of devices with which the present subject matter may be utilized include cameras camera phones mobile phones smart phones and computers.

Although in the examples described above the subjects are described as being people any suitable subject matter displayable on a digital image may comprise a subject. Additional examples of subjects with which the present subject matter may be utilized include goods and geographic locations.

As described above in one embodiment object selection and presentation control instance illustrated in includes circular constructs. For example each vector A D may comprise a circular construct where a portion of the objects in each construct is visible on the display on a portion of the object in each constructs are not visible on the display. The visible and non visible portions in each construct may be linked to each other such that a last displayed object in a construct will be followed by display of a first displayed object in a construct in response to a user navigation event. For example when the bottom object in vector A is displayed and the user selects control the top most object in vector A may be displayed.

As stated above relationships between objects may be coincidental or immutable. are tables illustrating exemplary coincidental and immutable relationships between entities. In examples of coincidental and immutable genealogical relationships between people are illustrated. In examples of coincidental and immutable relationships between car makes and models are illustrated. The information depicted in may be stored in dataset illustrated in .

It should be understood that the various components illustrated in the various block diagrams represent logical components that are configured to perform the functionality described herein and may be implemented in software hardware or a combination of the two. Moreover some or all of these logical components may be combined some may be omitted altogether and additional components can be added while still achieving the functionality described herein. Thus the subject matter described herein can be embodied in many different variations and all such variations are contemplated to be within the scope of what is claimed.

To facilitate an understanding of the subject matter described above many aspects are described in terms of sequences of actions that can be performed by elements of a computer system. For example it will be recognized that the various actions can be performed by specialized circuits or circuitry e.g. discrete logic gates interconnected to perform a specialized function by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both.

Moreover executable instructions of a computer program for carrying out the methods described herein can be embodied in any machine or computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution machine system apparatus or device such as a computer based or processor containing machine system apparatus or device that can read or fetch the instructions from the machine or computer readable medium and execute the instructions.

As used here a computer readable medium can be any means that can contain or store the computer program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution machine system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor machine system apparatus or device. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium can include the following a portable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc CD a portable digital video disc DVD and the like.

Thus the subject matter described herein can be embodied in many different forms and all such forms are contemplated to be within the scope of what is claimed. It will be understood that various details of the invention may be changed without departing from the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only and not for the purpose of limitation as the scope of protection sought is defined by the claims as set forth hereinafter together with any equivalents thereof entitled to.

