---

title: Treating damaged dermal or mucosal tissue with a whole, leech saliva extract
abstract: Methods are provided for isolating and using a whole-saliva leech extract. The methods can include feeding a phagostimulatory agent to a leech; inducing a regurgitation in the leech, the inducing including placing the leech in an environment having a temperature of less than about 0° C.; and, collecting an unrefined, whole saliva in the regurgitation of the cooled leech. The methods can include revitalizing the leech by warming it at a temperature ranging from about 5° C. to about 40° C. Stable, lyophilized, whole-saliva extracts of a leech are also provided, the extract having a stable activity when stored for use at a temperature below about −20° C., the extract maintaining at least 70% of the activity for at least 6 months. The extracts can be used to treat solid tumors, treat liquid tumors, treat diabetes, treat a viral disease, treat a parasitic disease, treat an antibacterial disease, or serve as an anti-oxidant.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09480720&OS=09480720&RS=09480720
owner: BIOPEP SOLUTIONS, INC.
number: 09480720
owner_city: Richmond, BC
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20160728
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 757 765 filed Dec. 23 2015 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 835 485 filed Aug. 25 2015 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 265 802 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 657 671 filed Mar. 13 2015 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 149 498 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 552 388 filed Nov. 24 2014 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 005 667 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 282 865 filed May 20 2014 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 932 642 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 624 856 filed Sep. 21 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 790 711 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 701 735 filed on Sep. 17 2012 each application of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The teachings provided herein are generally directed to methods of isolating and using a whole saliva leech extract in the treatment of a subject.

The history of humans using leeches goes back several thousands of years and practically all human civilizations described the use of leeches to treat different diseases. Unfortunately due at least to a lack of understanding of the chemistries and mechanisms associated with such uses the current state of the art has not been able to successfully commercialize the use of leech saliva extracts in treating disease.

There have been attempts at sacrificing leeches to extract active compounds from the whole body of leeches from the heads of leeches or from their salivary glands. Much research has been directed to identifying proteins from leech saliva extracts. None of these efforts however have been able to reproduce the effect of using a whole live leech with the exception of perhaps the isolation and use of hirudin as an anticoagulant.

There have been attempts at not sacrificing leeches but rather extracting a much diluted saliva solution from a live leech. Unfortunately these efforts have been faced with two major problems i the saliva removal requires a manual squeezing of the leech and as such is not easily scalable and ii the saliva remains dilute which can only be used fresh and any lyophilization attempts will reduce or completely abolish the therapeutic activity of the leech saliva extract. As such a dose dependent treatment or a treatment at elevated concentrations is not available for testing.

One of skill will appreciate i a method of isolating an active refined leech saliva extract LSE that can be successfully stored for months or even years ii a method of re using leeches to produce the LSE iii a method of commercializing the isolation and re use of the leeches to a scalable amount that is practical for commercialization iv a method of treating a solid tumor with the LSE v a method of treating a liquid tumor with the LSE vi a method of treating diabetes with the LSE vii a method of treating a virus with the LSE viii a method of treating a parasitic disease with the LSE ix a method of using the LSE as an antioxidant and x a method of using the LSE as an antibacterial.

The teachings provided herein are generally directed to methods of isolating and using a whole saliva leech extract in the treatment of a subject. Pharmaceutical formulations comprising the leech extracts and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier are provided.

The teachings include a method of removing a whole saliva from a leech. In these embodiments the methods can include feeding a phagostimulatory agent to a leech inducing a regurgitation in the leech the inducing including placing the leech in an environment having a temperature of less than about 0 C. and collecting an unrefined whole saliva in the regurgitation of the cooled leech.

The teachings include a method of creating a lyophilized whole saliva extract of a leech having an improved stability. In these embodiments the method can include feeding a phagostimulatory agent to a leech inducing regurgitation in the leech the inducing including placing the leech in an environment having a temperature ranging from about 5 C. to about 15 C. collecting an unrefined whole saliva in the regurgitation of the cooled leech removing solid components from the unrefined whole saliva to create a refined whole saliva and lyophilizing separate volumes of the refined whole saliva extract the volumes not exceeding about 2 ml each.

In some embodiments the collecting includes squeezing the leech to increase the amount of unrefined whole saliva collected. In some embodiments the methods further comprise revitalizing the leech by warming the leech in a water bath having a temperature ranging from about 5 C. to about 40 C. In some embodiments the methods further comprise creating a refined whole saliva extract the creating including removing solid components from the unrefined whole saliva. In some embodiments the methods further comprise lyophilizing separate volumes of the refined whole saliva extract the volumes not exceeding about 2 ml each. And in some embodiments the leech is

The teachings include a stable lyophilized whole saliva extract of a leech. In these embodiments the extract comprises a refined whole saliva extract of a leech lyophilized in volumes not exceeding about 2 ml each the extract refined by removing solid components from an unrefined whole saliva to create the refined whole saliva wherein the extract has a stable activity when stored for use at a temperature below about 20 C. the extract maintaining at least 70 of the activity for at least 6 months. And the leech can be

Methods of treating a subject by administering an effect amount of the leech extracts are provided. In some embodiments the method includes treating a solid tumor treating a liquid tumor treating diabetes treating a viral disease treating a parasitic disease treating a bacterial disease or administering an anti oxidant therapy. It should be appreciated that each of the treatments also relate to other conditions that may be desirable to treat in the subject.

The teachings provided herein are generally directed to methods of isolating and using a whole saliva leech extract in the treatment of a subject. Pharmaceutical formulations comprising the leech extracts and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier are provided.

It should be appreciated that the term extract can be used to refer to a powder form of the compounds of interest a liquid form of the compounds of interest or any one or any combination of the compounds of interest in powder or liquid form. One of skill will appreciate that the term extract can be used to refer to the compounds of interest before during or after their removal from the leech. In some embodiments the compounds of interest can be synthesized chemically using standard methods known to one of skill such that they can be synthesized and used alone or in any combination by those of skill without use of the extraction methods taught herein. The compositions provided herein can be referred to as extracts compositions compounds agents active agents bioactive agents supplements drugs and the like. In some embodiments the terms LSE extract LSE composition composition compound agent active active agent bioactive agent supplement and drug can be used interchangeably and it should be appreciated that a formulation can comprise any one or any combination of these. Likewise in some embodiments the composition can also be in a liquid or dry form where a dry form can be a powder form in some embodiments and a liquid form can include an aqueous or non aqueous component. Moreover the terms activity or bioactivity can refer to the function of the compound in vitro in an assay for example or in vivo when administered to a subject.

It should be appreciated that the leech extracts can be isolated or purified. In some embodiments the terms isolated and purified can be used interchangeably. In some embodiments the term isolated can be used to refer to the extract being removed from the natural chemical environment of the leech such that the extract is not in the form in which it exists in nature. It should be appreciated that the term purified can be used to refer to an extract from a leech in some embodiments such that the compounds of interest are isolated from the remainder of the leech in a form that can be administered to a subject such as a soluble form or a form that can go into aqueous solution. As such one of skill will appreciate that the compounds of interest can sometimes be accompanied by other components that are carried along with the extract. For example such other components can include any one or any combination of proteins found to be active in the leech. In some embodiments the term purified can be used to refer to an extract consisting of or consisting essentially of any one or any combination of the compounds of interest. In some embodiments the extract includes a phagostimulatory solution or a component from the phagostimulatory solution. In some embodiments an extract consists essentially of any one or any combination of the compounds of interest where the presence of any other component from the leech or extraction procedure has a negligible effect on the activity of the compounds of interest. The term negligible effect can be used to mean that the activity does not increase or decrease more than about 10 when compared to any one or any combination of the compounds of interest respectively without the other components. In some embodiments the term negligible effect can be used to refer to a change of less that 10 less than 9 less than 8 less than 7 less than 6 less than 5 less than 4 and less than 3 . In some embodiments the term negligible effect can be used to refer to a change ranging from about 3 to about 10 in increments of 1 . For example the activity of the compounds of interest can be enhanced by an amount ranging from about 10 to about 300 from about 20 to about 200 from about 25 to about 250 from about 30 to about 300 from about 35 to about 275 from about 40 to about 225 from about 15 to about 100 or any range therein in increments of 1 .

Methods of removing a whole saliva from a leech are provided. In these embodiments the methods can include feeding a phagostimulatory agent to a leech inducing a regurgitation in the leech the inducing including placing the leech in an environment having a temperature of less than about 0 C. and collecting an unrefined whole saliva in the regurgitation of the cooled leech.

One of skill will appreciate that any leech having a therapeutic saliva can be used in the teachings provided herein. In some embodiments the leech can belong to the family of hirudinidae to the sub family hirudinariiae or it can belong to a genus selected from the group consisting of . In some embodiments the leech can be selected from a species selected from the group consisting of cf.

In some embodiments the leech can belong to the family of haemadipsidae or it can belong to a genus selected from the group consisting of . In these embodiments the leech can be selected from a species selected from the group consisting of

In some embodiments the leech can belong to the family of xerobdellidae or it can belong to a genus selected from the group consisting of . In these embodiments the leech can be selected from a species selected from the group consisting of

In some embodiments the leech can belong to the family of haemopidae or it can belong to a genus selected from the group consisting of . In these embodiments the leech can be selected from a species selected from the group consisting of

In some embodiments the leech can belong to the family of semiscolecidae or it can belong to a genus selected from the group consisting of . In these embodiments the leech can be selected from a species selected from the group consisting of

In some embodiments the leech can belong to the family of americobdellidae or it can belong to a genus selected from the group consisting of . In these embodiments the leech can be selected from a species selected from the group consisting of

In some embodiments the leech can belong to the family of cylicobdellidae or it can belong to a genus selected from the group consisting of . In these embodiments the leech can be selected from a species selected from the group consisting of

In some embodiments the leech can belong to the family of erpobdellidae. In these embodiments the leech can be selected from a species selected from the group consisting of

Any phagostimulatory agent known to one of skill can be used. In some embodiments the phagostimulatory agent can include a protein a polypeptide an oligopeptide or an amino acid. In some embodiments the amino acid is an L amino acid selected from the group consisting of arginine alanine leucine aspartic acid serine threonine isoleucine histidine lysine tryptophan glycine phenylalanine tyrosine valine glutamic acid asparagine glutamine cysteine methionine and proline. In some embodiments the phagostimulatory agent is arginine. In some embodiments the phagostimulatory agent is glycine. In some embodiments the phagostimulatory agent is proline. In some embodiments the phagostimulatory agent is a sugar. In some embodiments the phagostimulatory agent is a sugar selected from the group consisting of fructose glucose sucrose maltose raffinose trehalose robose and galactose. In some embodiments the phagostimulatory agent is corn oil. In some embodiments the phagostimulatory agent comprises any one or any combination of amino acids and or sugars taught herein. Any suitable solvent for carrying the phagostimulatory can be used polar or non polar as long as the solvent does not substantially affect the activity or stability of the leech saliva extract.

The temperature of the leech that induces the regurgitation can range from about 5 C. to about 15 C. from about 4 C. to about 14 C. from about 3 C. to about 13 C. from about 2 C. to about 12 C. from about 1 C. to about 11 C. from about 0 C. to about 10 C. from about 2 C. to about 2 C. from about 3 C. to about 3 C. from about 4 C. to about 4 C. from about 5 C. to about 5 C. or any temperature or range of temperatures therein in increments of 1 C. The temperature can be established using any method known to one of skill. In some embodiments the temperature is established to 0 C. or about 0 C. using an ice water bath. In some embodiments a salt water bath can be used to lower the temperature below 0 C. and in some embodiments other liquids can be used to obtain other temperatures. Any method of cooling know to one of skill can be used to induce the leeches to vomit. The rate of freezing can be 0.1 to 2 C. per minute and in some embodiments 1 C. to 1.5 C. per minute. The time at the cool temperature can vary and can be for example from about 5 minutes to about 45 minutes from about 15 minutes to about 40 minutes from about 15 minutes to about 20 minutes from about 10 minutes to about 30 minutes from about 5 minutes to about 25 minutes from about 3 minutes to about 35 minutes from about 2 minutes to about 12 minutes or any time or range times therein in increments of 1 minute.

Methods of creating a lyophilized whole saliva extract of a leech having an improved stability are provided by the teachings herein. In these embodiments the method can include feeding a phagostimulatory agent to a leech inducing regurgitation in the leech the inducing including placing the leech in an environment having a temperature ranging from about 5 C. to about 15 C. collecting an unrefined whole saliva in the regurgitation of the cooled leech removing solid components from the unrefined whole saliva to create a refined whole saliva and lyophilizing separate volumes of the refined whole saliva extract the volumes not exceeding about 2 ml each.

In some embodiments the collecting includes squeezing the leech to increase the amount of unrefined whole saliva collected. In some embodiments the methods further comprise revitalizing the leech by warming the leech in a water bath having a temperature ranging from about 5 C. to about 40 C. In some embodiments the methods further comprise creating a refined whole saliva extract the creating including removing solid components from the unrefined whole saliva. In some embodiments the methods further comprise lyophilizing separate volumes of the refined whole saliva extract the volumes not exceeding about 2 ml each. And in some embodiments the leech is

Stable lyophilized whole saliva extracts of a leech are provided by the teachings herein. In these embodiments the extract comprises a refined whole saliva extract of a leech lyophilized in volumes not exceeding about 2 ml each the extract refined by removing solid components from an unrefined whole saliva to create the refined whole saliva wherein the extract has a stable activity when stored for use at a temperature below about 20 C. the extract maintaining at least 70 of the activity for at least 6 months. And the leech can be

Storage temperature has been shown in some embodiments herein to have a large effect on the stability of the extracts. In some embodiments for example the refined whole saliva can be stored at a temperature ranging from 0 C. to 80 C. from 20 C. to 270 C. from 20 C. to 196 C. from 20 C. to 80 C. from 80 C. to 196 C. or any temperature or any range therein in increments of 1 C.

One of skill will appreciate that the extracts can vary in stability but that the teachings provided herein show extracts with increased stabilities when compared to the current state of the art. One of skill will appreciate that the compositions or formulations should remain stable or at least substantially stable until used or activated and this can relate to a shelf life or a time between creation and administration of the composition or some combination thereof. In some embodiments the composition is stable or substantially stable when usable as intended within a reasonable amount of time a time that is considered reasonable by one of skill for the applications taught herein. In some embodiments the composition should be usable within a reasonable time from the making to the administration of the composition and in some embodiments the composition should have a reasonable commercial shelf life a shelf life that is considered reasonable to one of skill. A reasonable shelf life can be at least 6 months at least 1 year at least 18 months at least 2 years at least 3 years or any time in between in increments of about 1 month in some embodiments.

In some embodiments a composition or formulation can be considered as stable if it loses less than 10 less than 7 less than 6 less than 5 less than 3 less than 2 or less than 1 of its original activity. In some embodiments a composition or formulation can be considered as substantially stable if it loses greater than about 10 of its original activity as long as the composition can perform it s intended use to a reasonable degree of efficacy. In some embodiments the composition can be considered as substantially stable if it loses activity at an amount greater than about 12 about 15 about 25 about 35 about 45 about 50 about 60 or even about 70 . The activity loss can be measured by comparing activity at the time of packaging to the activity at the time of administration and this can include a reasonable shelf life. In some embodiments the composition is stable or substantially stable if it remains useful for a period ranging from 3 months to 3 years 6 months to 2 years 1 year or any time period therein in increments of about 1 month.

Methods of treating a subject by administering an effect amount of the leech extracts are provided by the teachings herein. The extracts taught herein can be used for a variety of treatments preventative ameliorative or otherwise as well as for use as a dietary supplement. The uses can include medicinal purposes as a health supplement a nutritional composition a prophylactic or a treatment of an existing condition. In some embodiments any tissue that can make contact with one or more active components of an extract taught herein can be treated. In some embodiments a tissue can have a desirable secondary effect from one or more of the active components of an extract taught herein making contact elsewhere in the subject such that one or more of the active components can contact a first tissue whereas a second tissue realizes a beneficial effect. For example the first tissue can be a stomach lining and the second tissue can realize the desirable effect of a release of a neurotransmitter or a neuroimpulse. The tissue can be for example connective muscle nervous and or epithelial tissue. In some embodiments the tissue is a dermal tissue. In some embodiments the tissue is a mucosal tissue. And in some embodiments the tissue is gastrointestinal tissue. In some embodiments the method includes treating a solid tumor treating a liquid tumor treating diabetes treating a viral disease treating a parasitic disease administering an anti oxidant therapy or administering an antibacterial therapy.

As such the subject can have a target tissue that is the focus of the treatment in which the extracts are applied directly or systemically. In some embodiments the term target site can be used to refer to a select location on or in a subject that could benefit from an administration of a compound taught herein either parenterally or non parenterally whether injected or administered topically or orally for example. In some embodiments a target can include any site of action in which the agent s activity can serve a benefit to the subject. The target site can be a healthy or damaged tissue of a subject. As such the teachings include a method of administering one or more compounds taught herein to a healthy or damaged tissue dermal mucosal gastrointestinal or otherwise.

The terms treat treating and treatment can be used interchangeably in some embodiments and refer to the administering or application of the compositions and formulations taught herein including such administration as a health or nutritional supplement and all administrations directed to the prevention inhibition amelioration of the symptoms or even a cure of a condition taught herein. The terms disease condition disorder and ailment can be used interchangeably in some embodiments.

The term subject and patient can be used interchangeably in some embodiments and refer to an animal such as a mammal including but not limited to non primates such as for example a cow pig horse cat dog rat and mouse and primates such as for example a monkey or a human. As such the terms subject and patient can also be applied to non human biologic applications including but not limited to veterinary companion animals commercial livestock and the like.

The LSE taught herein can be used in the treatment of cancer. In some embodiments the methods include treating a solid tumor and in some embodiments the methods include treating a liquid tumor. One of skill will appreciate that the cancers that can be treated using the methods taught herein can include any hyperproliferative tissue. In some embodiments for example any cancer listed in Table 2 can be treated using the methods taught herein.

The LSE taught herein can be used in the treatment of diabetes. Examples of diabetes include Type 1 Type 2 and gestational diabetes. As such one of skill will appreciate that the LSE taught herein can be used in treating and preventing metabolic imbalances diabetes mellitus a pre diabetic state metabolic syndrome and other related disorders such as Latent Autoimmune Diabetes in adults referred to as Type 1.5 diabetes . As such secondary medical conditions related to diabetes can also be treated using the LSE taught herein indirectly or directly including heart disease stroke high blood pressure eye complications retinopathy cataracts kidney disease nephropathy nervous system disease neuropathy peripheral vascular disease dental disease gastroparesis sexual dysfunction and complications during pregnancy.

The term diabetic in a rat can refer to a random blood glucose 225 mg dl or fasting blood glucose level of 110 mg dL. The term diabetic in a human can refer to a random plasma or blood glucose concentration of 200 mg dL 11.1 mmol L or a fasting plasma glucose 126 mg dL 7.0 mmol L or a 2 hour post load glucose 200 mg dL 11.1 mmol L during an oral glucose tolerance test. The term non diabetic in a rat generally means a fasting plasma glucose level of 80 mg dL or a random plasma glucose level

The above definitions for diabetes follow standards of the American Diabetes Association ADA the American Heart Association AHA and the National Heart Lung and Blood Institute. Other definitions can be used and may vary by region or country and may depend upon the group or institution e.g. ADA World Health Organization WHO National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases NIDDK NIH Center for Disease Control CDC etc. providing other guidelines. Physicians may also use clinical experience a patient s past medical history and the like when deciding on a diagnosis and treatment. As such one of skill will appreciate that the particular ranges and measures are merely relative rather than critical to making a diagnosis or planning a treatment. In some embodiments for example any of the above measures can vary by about 1 about 2 about 3 about 5 about 7 about 10 about 15 about 20 about 25 about 30 40 50 or any range or amount therein in increments of 0.1 .

The LSE taught herein can be used in the treatment of several different types of viral diseases. In some embodiments the virus can be a species of Adenoviridae Herpesviridae Papillomaviridae Polyomaviridae Poxviridae Hepadnaviridae Parvoviridae Astroviridae Caliciviridae Picornaviridae Coronaviridae Flaviviridae Togaviridae Retroviridae Orthomyxoviridae Arenaviridae Bunyaviridaem Filoviridae Paramyxoviridae Rhabdoviridae or Reoviridae.

In some embodiments the species of virus treated can be selected from the group consisting of Adenovirus Herpes simplex type 1 Herpes simplex type 2 Varicella zoster virus Epstein barr virus Human cytomegalovirus Human herpesvirus type 8 Human papillomavirus BK virus JC virus Smallpox Hepatitis B virus Human bocavirus Parvovirus B19 Human astrovirus Norwalk virus coxsackievirus hepatitis A virus poliovirus rhinovirus Severe acute respiratory syndrome virus Hepatitis C virus yellow fever virus dengue virus West Nile virus Rubella virus Hepatitis E virus and Human immunodeficiency virus HIV .

In some embodiments the viral condition can be a regionally identified condition selected from the viral conditions in Table 3 

In some embodiments the compositions taught herein can be administered with a second agent such as abacavir aciclovir acyclovir adefovir amantadine amprenavir ampligen arbidol atazanavir atripla aoceprevir cidofovir combivir darunavir delavirdine didanosine docosanol edoxudine efavirenz emtricitabine enfuvirtide entecavir entry inhibitors famciclovir fomivirsen fosamprenavir foscarnet fosfonet fusion inhibitor ganciclovir ibacitabine imunovir idoxuridine imiquimod indinavir inosine integrase inhibitor interferon type III interferon type II interferon type I interferon lamivudine lopinavir loviride maraviroc moroxydine methisazone nelfinavir nevirapine nexavir oseltamivir peginterferon alfa 2a penciclovir peramivir pleconaril podophyllotoxin protease inhibitor. Raltegravir reverse transcriptase inhibitor ribavirin rimantadine ritonavir pyramidine saquinavir stavudine synergistic enhancer antiretroviral tea tree oil telaprevir tenofovir tenofovir disoproxil tipranavir trifluridine trizivir tromantadine truvada valaciclovir valganciclovir vicriviroc vidarabine viramidine zalcitabine zanamivir and zidovudine.

The LSE taught herein can be used in the treatment of several different types of parasitic diseases. In some embodiments the parasitic disease treated can be classed as a condition caused by protozoa causing protozoan infection helminths helminthiasis and ectoparasites.

In some embodiments the parasitic disease can be selected from the group consisting of keratitism Amoebiasis Ascariasis Babesiosis Balantidiasis Baylisascariasis Chagas disease Clonorchiasis Cryptosporidiosis Diphyllobothriasis Dracunculiasis caused by the Guinea worm Echinococcosis Elephantiasis Enterobiasis Fascioliasis Fasciolopsiasis Filariasis Giardiasis Gnathostomiasis Hymenolepiasis Isosporiasis Katayama fever Leishmaniasis Lyme disease Malaria Metagonimiasis Myiasis Onchocerciasis Pediculosis Scabies Schistosomiasis Sleeping sickness Strongyloidiasis Taeniasis cause of Cysticercosis Toxocariasis Toxoplasmosis Trichinosis and Trichuriasis.

In some embodiments the compositions taught herein can be administered with a second agent such as thiabendazole pyrantel pamoate mebendazole praziquantel niclosamide bithionol oxamniquine metrifonate Ivermectin albendazole benznidazole nifurtimox and nitroimidazole.

The LSE taught herein can be used in the treatment of several different types of bacterial diseases. In some embodiments the bacterial disease can include for example tuberculosis from pneumonia from and a foodborne illness from or and either tetanus typhoid fever diphtheria syphilis or leprosy. In some embodiments the bacterial disease can be a bacterial vaginosis bacterial meningitis bacterial pneumonia urinary tract infection including . Infections bacterial gastroenteritis also including and bacterial skin infections including impetigo from and Erysipelas from and cellulitis which can include connective tissue. In some embodiments the bacterial disease can be selected from the group consisting of the diseases in Table 4.

The LSE taught herein can be used in antioxidant therapy. One of skill will appreciate that reactive oxygen species ROS are widely believed to cause or aggravate several human pathologies such as arthritis neurodegenerative diseases cancer heart disease stroke and many other ailments. Antioxidants can be used to counteract the harmful effects of ROS and therefore prevent or treat oxidative stress related diseases. In some embodiments the LES taught herein can be used as a free radical scavenger or to prevent oxidation in the body. In some embodiments the LES taught herein can be used to treat inflammatory disorders endocrine disorders cardiovascular disease aging as well as to serve as a neuroprotective agent. In some embodiments the LES taught herein can be used to treat atherosclerosis. And in some embodiments the LES can be administered in combination with a cholesterol medication such as an absorption blocker a synthesis inhibitors and a niacin based drug. In some embodiments a non drug alternative can be used such as beta glucan from whole oats or barley psyllium from wheat bran or phytosterols and or phytostanols.

In some embodiments the absorption blocker can be cholestyramine or ZETIA. In some embodiments the synthesis inhibitor can be a statin including but not limited to MEVACOR PRAVACHOL ZOCOR LIPITOR LESCOL CRESTOR or LIVALO. In some embodiments the synthesis inhibitor can be LOVASTATIN PRAVASTATIN or SIMVASTATIN. In some embodiments the niacin based medication can be NIASPAN or NIACOR. In some embodiments the cholesterol medication can be a combination product such as MEVACOR with NIASPAN or ZETIA with ZOCOR.

Any administration vehicle known to one of skill to be suitable for administration of the compounds compositions and formulations taught herein can be used. A vehicle can refer to for example a diluent excipient or carrier with which a compound is administered to a subject.

The terms administration or administering can be used to refer to a method of incorporating a composition into or onto the cells or tissues of a subject either in vivo or ex vivo to test the activity of a system as well as to diagnose prevent treat or ameliorate a symptom of a disease or condition. In one example a compound can be administered to a subject in vivo using any means of administration taught herein. In another example a compound can be administered ex vivo by combining the compound with cell tissue from the subject for purposes that include but are not limited to assays for determining utility and efficacy of a composition. And of course the compositions can be used in vitro to test their stability activity toxicity efficacy and the like. When the compound is incorporated in the subject in combination with one or active agents the terms administration or administering can include sequential or concurrent incorporation of the compound with the other agents such as for example any agent described above. A composition can be formulated in some embodiments to be compatible merely with its intended route of administration.

Any dosage form known to one of skill can be used for administrations that include for example parenteral and non parenteral administrations. In some embodiments the composition is in a dosage form for administration topically. And in some embodiments the composition is in a dosage form for administration orally. In some embodiments the dosage form can be a capsule or an injectable fluid. The composition can also be used as a dietary supplement. The term dosage unit can refer to discrete predetermined quantities of a compound that can be administered as unitary dosages to a subject. A predetermined quantity of active compound can be selected to produce a desired therapeutic effect and can be administered with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The predetermined quantity in each unit dosage can depend on factors that include but are not limited to a the unique characteristics of the active compound and the particular therapeutic effect to be achieved and b the limitations inherent in the art of creating and administering such dosage units.

A pharmaceutically acceptable carrier is a diluent adjuvant excipient or vehicle with which the composition is administered. A carrier is pharmaceutically acceptable after approval by a state or federal regulatory agency or listing in the U.S. Pharmacopeial Convention or other generally recognized sources for use in subjects. The pharmaceutical carriers include any and all physiologically compatible solvents dispersion media coatings antibacterial and antifungal agents isotonic and absorption delaying agents and the like. Examples of pharmaceutical carriers include but are not limited to sterile liquids such as water oils and lipids such as for example phospholipids and glycolipids. These sterile liquids include but are not limited to those derived from petroleum animal vegetable or synthetic origin such as for example peanut oil soybean oil mineral oil sesame oil and the like.

Suitable pharmaceutical excipients include but are not limited to starch sugars inert polymers glucose lactose sucrose gelatin malt rice flour chalk silica gel sodium stearate glycerol monostearate talc sodium chloride dried skim milk glycerol propylene glycol water ethanol and the like. In some embodiments the composition can also contain minor amounts of wetting agents emulsifying agents pH buffering agents or a combination thereof. Oral formulations for example can include standard carriers such as for example pharmaceutical grades mannitol lactose starch magnesium stearate sodium saccharine cellulose magnesium carbonate and the like. See Martin E. W. Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences.

As described herein the compositions can take the form of lotions creams suspensions emulsions tablets pills capsules powders sustained release formulations and the like. In some embodiments the compositions or formulations can be administered to a subject in any non parenteral manner known to one of skill whereas in contrast a parenteral administration involves piercing the skin or a mucous membrane. Depending on the target tissue the administration can be topical oral ocular otologic nasal urogenital rectal dermal vaginal or otherwise to a mucous membrane. Oral administration for example can include digestive tract buccal and sublingual administration and a solid or liquid carrier can be used. One of skill will appreciate that the therapeutic program selected the agents administered the condition of the subject and the effects desired can affect the administration schedule and program used.

The compositions or formulations can be contained in forms that include tablets troches capsules elixirs beverages suspensions syrups wafers chewing gums gels hydrogels and the like. Tablets pills capsules troches liquids and the like may also contain binders excipients disintegrating agent lubricants glidants chelating agents buffers tonicity modifiers surfactants sweetening agents and flavoring agents. Some examples of binders include microcrystalline cellulose gum tragacanth or gelatin. Some examples of excipients include starch or maltodextrin. Some examples of disintegrating agents include alginic acid corn starch and the like. Some examples of lubricants include magnesium stearate or potassium stearate. An example of a chelating agent is EDTA. Some examples of buffers are acetates citrates or phosphates. Some examples of tonicity modifiers include sodium chloride and dextrose. Some examples of surfactants for micellation or increasing cell permeation include coconut soap anionic cationic or ethoxylate detergents. An example of a glidant is colloidal silicon dioxide. Some examples of sweetening agents include sucrose saccharin and the like. Some examples of flavoring agents include peppermint chamomile orange flavoring and the like.

In the digestive tract for example a solid can include a pill capsule tablet or time release technology in some embodiments and a liquid can include a solution soft gel suspension emulsion syrup elixir tincture or a hydrogel. Digestive tract administration can include oral or rectal administration using any method known to one of skill. For buccal sublingual and sublabial administration a solid can include an orally disintegrating tablet a film a lollipop a lozenge or chewing gum and a liquid can include a mouthwash a toothpaste an ointment or an oral spray.

One of skill understands that the amount of the agents administered can vary according to factors such as for example the type of disease age sex and weight of the subject as well as the method of administration. Dosage regimens may also be adjusted to optimize a therapeutic response. In some embodiments a single bolus may be administered several divided doses may be administered over time the dose may be proportionally reduced or increased or any combination thereof as indicated by the exigencies of the therapeutic situation and factors known to one of skill in the art. It is to be noted that dosage values may vary with the severity of the condition to be alleviated as well as whether the administration is prophylactic such that the condition has not actually onset or produced symptoms. Dosage regimens may be adjusted over time according to the individual need and the professional judgment of the person administering or supervising the administration of the compositions and any dosage ranges set forth herein are exemplary only and do not limit the dosage ranges that may be selected.

An effective amount of a compound can be used to describe a therapeutically effective amount or a prophylactically effective amount. An effective amount can also be an amount that ameliorates the symptoms of a disease. A therapeutically effective amount can refer to an amount that is effective at the dosages and periods of time necessary to achieve a desired therapeutic result and may also refer to an amount of active compound prodrug or pharmaceutical agent that elicits any biological or medicinal response in a tissue system or subject that is sought by a researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician that may be part of a treatment plan leading to a desired effect. In some embodiments the therapeutically effective amount should be administered in an amount sufficient to result in amelioration of one or more symptoms of a disorder prevention of the advancement of a disorder or regression of a disorder. In some embodiments for example a therapeutically effective amount can refer to the amount of an agent that provides a measurable response of at least 5 at least 10 at least 15 at least 20 at least 25 at least 30 at least 35 at least 40 at least 45 at least 50 at least 55 at least 60 at least 65 at least 70 at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 at least 95 or at least 100 of a desired action of the composition.

In cases of the prevention or inhibition of the onset of a disease or disorder or where an administration is considered prophylactic a prophylactically effective amount of a composition or formulation taught herein can be used. A prophylactically effective amount can refer to an amount that is effective at the dosages and periods of time necessary to achieve a desired prophylactic result such as prevent the onset of a sunburn an inflammation allergy nausea diarrhea infection and the like. Typically a prophylactic dose is used in a subject prior to the onset of a disease or at an early stage of the onset of a disease to prevent or inhibit onset of the disease or symptoms of the disease. A prophylactically effective amount may be less than greater than or equal to a therapeutically effective amount.

In some embodiments a therapeutically or prophylactically effective amount of a composition may range in concentration from about 0.01 nM to about 0.10 M from about 0.01 nM to about 0.5 M from about 0.1 nM to about 150 nM from about 0.1 nM to about 500 M from about 0.1 nM to about 1000 nM 0.001 M to about 0.10 M from about 0.001 M to about 0.5 M from about 0.01 M to about 150 M from about 0.01 M to about 500 M from about 0.01 M to about 1000 nM or any range therein. In some embodiments the compositions may be administered in an amount ranging from about 0.005 mg kg to about 100 mg kg from about 0.005 mg kg to about 400 mg kg from about 0.01 mg kg to about 300 mg kg from about 0.01 mg kg to about 250 mg kg from about 0.1 mg kg to about 200 mg kg from about 0.2 mg kg to about 150 mg kg from about 0.4 mg kg to about 120 mg kg from about 0.15 mg kg to about 100 mg kg from about 0.15 mg kg to about 50 mg kg from about 0.5 mg kg to about 10 mg kg or any range therein wherein a human subject is often assumed to average about 70 kg.

In some embodiments the compositions or formulations can be administered in conjunction with at least one other therapeutic agent for the condition being treated. The amounts of the agents can be reduced even substantially such that the amount of the agent or agents desired is reduced to the extent that a significant response is observed from the subject. A significant response can include but is not limited to a reduction or elimination of a symptom a visible increase in a desirable therapeutic effect a faster response to the treatment a more selective response to the treatment or a combination thereof. In some embodiments the other therapeutic agent can be administered for example in an amount ranging from about 0.1 g kg to about 1 mg kg from about 0.5 g kg to about 500 g kg from about 1 g kg to about 250 g kg from about 1 g kg to about 100 g kg from about 1 g kg to about 50 g kg or any range therein. Combination therapies can be administered for example for 30 minutes 1 hour 2 hours 4 hours 8 hours 12 hours 18 hours 1 day 2 days 3 days 4 days 5 days 6 days 7 days 8 days 9 days 10 days 2 weeks 3 weeks 4 weeks 6 weeks 3 months 6 months 1 year 2 years. Any combination thereof or any amount of time considered desirable by one of skill. The agents can be administered concomitantly sequentially or cyclically to a subject. Cycling therapy involves the administering a first agent for a predetermined period of time administering a second agent or therapy for a second predetermined period of time and repeating this cycling for any desired purpose such as for example to enhance the efficacy of the treatment. The agents can also be administered concurrently. The term concurrently is not limited to the administration of agents at exactly the same time but rather means that the agents can be administered in a sequence and time interval such that the agents can work together to provide additional benefit. Each agent can be administered separately or together in any appropriate form using any appropriate means of administering the agent or agents. One of skill can readily select the frequency duration and perhaps cycling of each concurrent administration.

Each of the agents described herein can be administered to a subject in combination therapy. In some embodiments the agents can be administered at points in time that vary by about 15 minutes 30 minutes 1 hour 2 hours 4 hours 8 hours 12 hours 18 hours 24 hours 48 hours or 1 week in time. In some embodiments at least one of the agents is an immunomodulatory agent. In other embodiments the agents can include antiproliferatives antineoplastics antimitotics anti inflammatories antiplatelets anticoagulants antifibrins antithrombins antibiotics antiallergics antioxidants and any prodrugs codrugs metabolites analogs homologues congeners derivatives salts and combinations thereof.

Without intending to be limited to any theory or mechanism of action the following examples are provided to further illustrate the teachings presented herein. It should be appreciated that there are several variations contemplated within the skill in the art and that the examples are not intended to be construed as providing limitations to the claims.

This example shows that leeches can be fed a phagostimulatory agent induced to regurgitate the agent to collect the whole saliva as an unrefined whole saliva in the regurgitation and then be revitalized for reprocessing to collect more saliva. The regurgitation can be induced for example by significantly lowering the leeches body temperature to a state of paralysis or near paralysis to induce a vomiting. The leeches can then be warmed to re animate or revitalize the leeches for storage and or the reprocessing to collect more saliva.

The leeches were collected by a local supplier from the natural lake Cheneh located in Terengganu Malaysia. The leeches were maintained at room temperature under 12 h 12 h light and dark cycle in well aerated plastic containers filled with un chlorinated tap water which was regularly changed every 2 3 days.

The low temperature induced a regurgitation of the phagostimulatory solution as well as a sort of paralysis or near paralysis of the leech . The paralyzed leeches were squeezed to remove additional unrefined whole saliva without harming the leeches . A valuable process consideration is that the leeches were found to readily regain their activity by immersing them in a warm water bath at 37 C. for about 15 to about 30 min after which they are revitalized and can be stored for re use.

The unrefined whole saliva was a colorless fluid that was pooled and centrifuged at 4 C. and 9000 rpm for 15 min to remove solids and refine the whole saliva. To further refine the whole saliva the supernatant was filtered using a 0.45 m filter paper. The refined leech saliva extract was aliquoted in amber flat bottom glass tubes in amounts that did not exceed 2 ml for a 24 hour lyophilization cycle. Before lyophilization the refined extracts were frozen at 80 C. for 30 min. After lyophilizations the refined extracts were kept at 80 C. in the closed amber flat bottom glass tubes.

Standard procedures known to those of skill were used to produce UV spectra of the LSE. The spectra were obtained by scanning and measuring the showing an optimum protein spectrum with 2 values at 199 nm and 207 nm.

Standard procedures known to those of skill were used to produce a quantitative colorimetic proten assay in which a reagent kit having bovine serum albumin BSA as a standard protein was used. Bradford M. M. Anal. Biochem. 72 248 254 1976 . A phagostimulatory solution having 0.001M arginine in 0.15M NaCl was used as a blank and a series of known concentrations of BSA 10 g ml to 250 g ml were prepared in the phagostimulatory solution. Three dilutions of the LSE were prepared in the phagostimulatory solution and 100 l volumes of the BSA LSE and blank were aliquoted in EPPENDROF tubes with an equal volume of Bradford reagent and mixed well. The absorbance at 595 nm A were measured using a microplate reader. The Avalues of the blank were subtracted from those of BSA and LSE and a standard curve of the known concentrations of BSA against their Avalues was prepared to determine total protein concentration of the leech saliva extract from the plot.

Standard gel electrophoresis procedures known to those of skill were used to produce molecular weight distributions of the LSE. The separation of molecules within a gel is determined by the relative size of the pores formed within the gel. The pore size of a gel is determined by two factors the total amount of acrylamide present designated as T and the amount of cross linker C . As the total amount of acrylamide increases the pore size decreases.

The Laemmli SDS PAGE gel electrophoresis method is commonly used and known to one of skill in the art. The method is widely used to separate proteins based on electrophoretic mobility.

STOCK SOLUTIONS AND BUFFERS Stock solutions and buffers were prepared for a Laemmli SDS PAGE sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel gel electrophoresis as follows 

In preparing stock solutions an acrylamide bisacrylamide 30 T 2.67 C AB 30 was prepared calculating C and T according to Hjerten 1962 

such that 29.2 g acrylamide 29.2 g and 0.8 g bisacrylamide were dissolved in distilled water and the volume was brought to 100 ml in a volumetric flask. The solution was filtered by using WHATMAN filter paper grade 1 under vacuum. The solution was kept in a dark container at 4 C. A 10 w v SDS was prepared by dissolving 10 g of SDS in 90 ml water with gentle stirring and the volume was brought to 100 ml with distilled water in a volumetric flask. The solution was kept in room temperature.

In preparing the 10 APS ammonium persulfate prepared and used fresh daily stock solution as a polymerization initiator 100 mg of APS was dissolved in 1 ml of distilled water and used immediately.

In preparing a 1.5M tris HCl pH 8.8 buffer 18.15 g of Tris base tris hydroxymethyl aminomethane was dissolved in 80 ml distilled water and the pH was adjusted to 8.8 with 6N HCl. The total volume was brought to 100 ml with distilled water and stored at 4 C.

In preparing a 0.5 M tris HCl buffer pH 6.8 6 g of the Tris base was dissolved in 60 ml distilled water. The pH was adjusted to 6.8 with 6 N HCl. The total volume was brought to 100 ml with distilled water and store at 4 C.

In preparing an SDS reducing buffer sample buffer 1.25 ml of 0.5M tris HCl was mixed with 2.5 ml glycerol 2 ml of the 10 SDS and 0.2 ml of 0.5 w v bromophenol blue. The total volume was brought to 10 ml with distilled water in a volumetric flask. The buffer was stored at room temperature. 50 l mercaptoethanol were added to 950 l sample buffer at the time of use.

In preparing a 10 electrode running buffer pH 8.3 30.3 g of the Tris base 144.0 g glycine and 10.0 g SDS were dissolved in distilled water under gentle stirring and the last volume was brought to 1 liter with distilled water. The buffer was kept at room temperature. When running the gel 100 ml of this buffer were taken and the volume was brought to 1 liter.

MAKING THE GEL The gel electrophoresis procedure was run using a mini protein tetra cell BIO RAD instrument. The gel 6 8 cm 1 mm was prepared using glass plates a gel caster a resolving gel and a stacking gel as follows 

In preparing a resolving gel 15 5 ml of the acrylamide bisacrylamide stock solution 2.4 ml distilled water 2.5 ml of the pH 8.8 tris buffer and 0.1 ml of the SDS stock solution were mixed and degassed for about 15 min and 50 l of the APS stock solution and 5 l of TEMED N N N N tetramethylethylenediamine were added.

In preparing the stacking gel 1.7 ml of the acrylamide bisacrylamide stock solution 5.7 ml distilled water 2.5 ml of the pH 6.8 tris buffer and 0.1 ml SDS were mixed and degassed for about 15 min. 50 l of the APS stock solution and 10 l of TEMED were added.

The resolving gel was poured into the gel slabs using a plastic syringe and 1.5 cm over the separating gel was left empty for the stacking gel. 100 l isopropanol were laid on the surface of the gel for smoothness and to avoid dehydration and the gel was allowed to polymerize for about 45 minutes. The isopropanol was removed after polymerization of the resolving gel and stacking gel was added after washing the surface of the resolving gel with a separating gel buffer. A comb was added to form cells and the stacking gel was allowed to polymerize for about 30 minutes and the comb was removed from the gel. The cells were washed with the electrophoresis buffer and the gel slab was placed in the electrophoresis tank and the tank was filled with the electrophoresis buffer.

PREPARING THE LSE the LSE was lyophilized as described herein and the LSE powder was dissolved in a sample buffer and heated at 95 C. for 5 min in a water bath. SDS was added to the sample buffer to help in the denaturation of proteins masking the surface of proteins with negative charges to balance the charge size ratio for all proteins such that the separation will be based only on the size of the protein. Heating the protein samples before loading helps in completely denaturing all proteins increases solubility and reduction of disulfide reduction without degradation of proteins Voerman 1998 .

RUNNING THE GEL the sample was applied to the cells using a micropipette and a peptide marker was applied to one cell. The electrophoresis lid was placed carefully the electrodes were attached to a power source and the electrophoresis was run for 35 minutes at 200V.

Coomassie Brilliant Blue dye was used to visualize proteins and determine molecular weights from the polyacrylamide gels. A 1 L stock dye solution was prepared by dissolving 1 g Coomassie Brilliant Blue R 250 in 450 ml methanol and 100 ml glacial acetic acid. Distilled water was added to increase total volume to 1 L. The stock dye solution was filtered using WHATMAN filter paper grade 1 and kept at room temperature. A 1 L destaining solution was prepared by mixing 100 ml methanol with 100 ml glacial acetic acid and adding distilled water to increase the total volume to 1 L.

After electrophoresis the gel was transferred to a plastic container containing stock dye solution and left there for 30 minutes. The staining solution was discarded and the gel was incubated in the destaining solution for 30 minutes with agitation. This step was repeated three to four times with fresh destaining solution and the gel was incubated in destaining solution overnight. The gel was imaged and documented using a BIO RAD gel imager.

This portion of the gel electrophoresis analysis was performed according to the Okajima method which is considered to give better results for peptides. Okajima et al. 1993 . The method generally uses the same stock solutions and buffers as the Laemmli SDS PAGE method an exception being the separating gel buffer.

SEPARATING STACKING GEL BUFFER a 3M tris HCl pH 8.45 buffer was made by dissolving 36.3 g of the Tris base in distilled water pH was adjusted to 8.45 with 6N HCl and the total volume was brought to 100 ml with distilled water.

MAKING THE GEL In preparing the resolving separating gel 19.2 10 ml of the AB 30 stock solution was mixed with 3.75 ml of the separating buffer 0.15 ml SDS and 1 ml water. The mixture was degassed for 15 min using the sonicator and 50 l of the APS stock solution and 10 l of the TEMED stock solution were added. The mixture was poured into the gel slabs using a plastic syringe and allowed to polymerize for 45 minutes. In preparing the stacking gel 4 1.3 ml of the AB 30 stock solution was mixed with 2.5 ml stacking gel buffer 0.1 ml SDS and 6 ml water. The mixture was degassed for 15 minutes before adding APS 50 l and TEMED 10 l. The sample buffer used for the Laemmli method above was used for this method.

PREPARING THE LSE AND RUNNING THE GEL the LSE was lyophilized as described herein and the LSE powder was dissolved in a sample buffer and heated at 95 C. for 5 min in a water bath. SDS was added to the sample buffer to help in the denaturation of proteins masking the surface of proteins with negative charges to balance the charge size ratio for all proteins such that the separation will be based only on the size of the protein. 20 l of the sample was applied for the gel. The gel was run for 100 minutes at 100V. Commassie blue staining was used to stain the gel.

This portion of the gel electrophoresis analysis was performed according to a tricine SDS PAGE method commonly used to separate proteins in the smaller molecular weight range of 1 100 kDa and preferably used for resolving proteins smaller than 30 kDa. The use of tricine instead of glycine as a reduction agent provides a better separation of peptides having such low molecular weights.

STOCK SOLUTIONS AND BUFFERS The AB 30 stock solution 10 w v SDS 10 w v APS and the sample buffer SDS reducing buffer is the same as that used in the Laemmli SDS PAGE method described herein and the separating stacking gel buffer of Okajima method is used. Otherwise this method generally uses the same stock solutions and buffers as the Laemmli SDS PAGE method.

A 10 cathode buffer was prepared by dissolving 12.1 g Tris base tricine and 1 g SDS in distilled water. The total volume was brought to 100 ml and the solution was kept at room temperature. The buffer was diluted 10 times before use. In addition a 10 anode buffer was prepared by dissolving 12.1 g Tris base in water and adjusting pH to 8.9 with HCl 6 N. The total volume was brought to 100 ml and the solution was kept at room temperature. The buffer was diluted 10 times before use.

A fixation solution of 5 glutaraldehyde was prepared by add 10 ml of a 50 glutaraldehyde to distilled water and bringing the total volume to 100 ml. The solution was filtered using WHATMAN filter paper grade 1 under a fume hood and used fresh.

MAKING THE GEL The gels were made according to methods known in the art. Sch gger von Jagow 1987 . In preparing the resolving separating gel 16 5 ml of AB 30 was mixed with 5 ml of the separating buffer 1.5 ml glycerol and 1.5 ml distilled water. The mixture was degassed for 15 minutes and 50 l of the APS stock solution and 5 l of the TEMED stock solution were added. The gel was poured to the gel slab without delay. The surface of gel was covered by 100 l isopropanol and allowed to polymerize for 45 minutes. In preparing the stacking gel 4 1 ml of the AB 30 was mixed with 3 ml gel buffer and 11 ml distilled water. The mixture was degassed for 15 minutes and 100 l of the APS stock solution and 10 l of the TEMED stock solution were added. Without delay the gel was poured to the gel slab. The comb was positioned and the gel was allowed to polymerize for 30 minutes.

PREPARING THE LSE AND RUNNING THE GEL the LSE was lyophilized as described herein and the LSE powder was dissolved in a sample buffer and heated at 95 C. for 5 min in a water bath. SDS was added to the sample buffer to help in the denaturation of proteins masking the surface of proteins with negative charges to balance the charge size ratio for all proteins such that the separation will be based only on the size of the protein. 20 l of the sample was applied for the gel. The gel was run for 5 hours running at 40V for the first 3 hours and increasing voltage by 10V every 30 minutes. After electrophoresis the gel was washed with distilled water for 5 minutes and repeated three times. The washed gel was transferred to a container of the fixer solution for 1 hour and washed with distilled water to remove the glutaraldehyde. The fixed gel was placed in Commassie blue staining solution for 30 min with gentle agitation. The destaining solution was applied for 30 min with agitation and this step was repeated several times until the band became clear.

The data compared well to known literature values of species such as bufridin 7 kDa manillase 58 kDa hirullin P18 6.8 kDa and gelin 8.2 kDa . The data suggested other proteins may be shared with other species such as 65 kDa 12 kDa 30 kDa 7 kDa and 28.5 kDa .

This example shows how to use analytical chromatography Buffer A 0.1 TFA in water and Buffer B 0.1 TFA in acetonitrile of the crude saliva extract to identify more than 30 peaks with high resolution in the LSE. In particular reverse phase HPLC RP HPLC can be used.

MATERIALS AND METHODS An Agilent CRP column buffer A 0.1 TFA in water buffer B 0.1 TFA in acetonitrile a 1 ml min flow rate and a 5 gradient 5 B over 5 min 5 90 B over 40 min wavelength 214 nm A lyophilized saliva B fresh saliva. The lyophilized saliva extract after reconstitution in distilled was applied to the CRP column at a flow rate of 1 ml min and a gradient of 5 of B over 5 min followed by 5 90 B over 40 min and then 90 of B over 5 min and finally 90 5 of B over 5 min. The UV detector was set at 214 nm and a volume 100 l was injected in the loop. A blank 0.15M saline 0.001M arginine was run before each analysis.

This example shows that i the lyophilized LSE retains anticoagulant activity and ii active components of the LSE can be identified using known methods. The LSE was frozen at 40 C. lyophilized dissolved in 60 l distilled water and used to assess the anticoagulant activity of isolated portions of the LSE. Isolated proteins were identified and assessed for anticoagulant activity and the results revealed two active proteins that extend thrombin time. They were given the names. protein 1 and protein 2 and prolonged thrombin time by 26.23 and 31.65 respectively. The isolated proteins were also assessed for inhibition of amidolytic activity of thrombin and the results show that they inhibited the amidolytic activity of thrombin by 30.61 and 41.22 for protein 1 and protein 2 respectively confirming the results obtained regarding thrombin time.

The determination of the amidolytic activity of LSE was based on its inhibitory effect on thrombin induced release of p nitroanilide from the synthetic substrate of thrombin S 2238 using known methods. Mao et al. 1987 Schmied Hoeffken Hornberger Bernard 1995 .

Antithrombin activity was determined using a thrombin time TT assay in vitro. The following standard protocols were used as provided with THROMBOCLOTIN reagent and a SYSMIX CA 50 COAGULOMETER 

Fresh LSE collected from leeches starved for 16 weeks prolonged thrombin time TT of the citrated plasma in a dose dependent manner. Leech saliva protein concentration which can increase TT two fold IC was estimated by plotting TT values against saliva protein concentrations that were mixed with the citrated plasma.

This example shows the substantial effect of lyophilization conditions and storage conditions on the activity and stability of the LSE. Antithrombin activity was used as a measure of the activity and stability of the LSE under the different conditions. Lyophilization conditions such as vessel type pre freezing temperature lyophilization time and storage conditions were all varied to determine their effects on LSE activity.

The LSE was aliquoted in separate glass and polypropylene tubes each containing 1 ml. The samples were then frozen at 20 C. or 40 C. and the frozen samples were lyophilized for 12 24 48 or 72 hours. The antithrombin activity TT of each lyophilized sample was determined and compared with that of the fresh LSE. In addition glass or polypropylene tubes each containing 1 ml of lyophilized or non lyophilized LSE were stored at room temperature 4 C. and 20 C. Some tubes at room temperature were protected from light by wrapping them with aluminum foil. The antithrombin activity TT of each sample was monitored for a period of six months and compared with that of the fresh LSE.

After one day of storage all samples lyophilized or non lyophilized stored at room temperature over time lost activity compared to the initial activity of fresh LSE.

Fresh samples stored in glass tubes exposed to light lost more than 90 activity after one day. Non lyophilized LSE kept in glass tubes protected from light lost 62.2 activity after one day of storage and more than 90 after 3 days of storage. Non lyophilized samples kept in polypropylene tubes showed more than 90 loss of activity after a storage period of one day regardless of protection from light. Lyophilized LSE kept in glass tubes protected from light for one three and seven days lost about 26.5 75 and 95 activity respectively. Lyophilized LSE exposed to light for one day lost about 48 activity and about 90 after 3 7 days. Lyophilized LSE kept in polypropylene tubes in the dark for one day lost 57 activity and more than 90 activity after 3 days. Lyophilized LSE kept in polypropylene tubes and exposed to light lost 80 99 activity over 7 days.

Light significantly affected LSE activity at room temperature. Lyophilized LSE kept in glass tubes protected from light lost 26.5 activity in one day compared to a 48 p

The type of the container affected activity of LSE when stored at room temperature. Lyophilized samples stored in glass tubes lost 26.5 47.8 activity whereas those stored in polypropylene tubes lost 57.1 84.5 p

Lyophilization provided stability to the LSE at room temperature. Non lyophilized samples show a substantial loss of activity when compared to lyophilized samples when stored under the same conditions. Non lyophilized LSE stored in glass tubes protected from light lost 62.2 activity after one day whereas the lyophilized LSE lost 26.5 activity after one day p

At a reduced temperature of 4 C. no significant loss of activity occurred in seven days regardless of sample type or storage conditions. However all samples showed a significant decrease p

Non lyophilized samples kept in glass tubes retained 100 97 activity during the seven days. A sharp decline 45 in activity occurred after 15 days and longer storage times showed more than a 90 loss of activity. Lyophilized samples kept in glass tubes retained about 100 activity after seven days lost about 27 of activity after 15 days and lost about 80 90 activity after 30 days.

Non lyophilized samples kept in polypropylene containers retained 100 95 activity during the seven days lost about 47 activity after 15 days and more than 90 activity after 30 days. Lyophilized saliva samples kept in polypropylene containers lost about 0 9 activity after 3 days about 13 after 7 days about 32 after 15 days and about 85 95 after 30 days.

At the storage temperature of 20 C. the type of container and state of the extract were not statistically significant. Non lyophilized LSE stored in glass tubes lost from 0 6 activity statistically insignificant in 15 days at 20 C. After 30 days about 10 activity was lost. After 90 180 days a significant loss of about 12 15 p

This example shows the cytotoxic activity of the LSE prepared according to Example 1 in the treatment of a solid tumor.

REAGENTS all reagents prepared as desired under strict sterile conditions per ESCO Class II Biological Safety Cabinet Leibovitz s L 15 medium from Sigma Aldrich phosphate buffered saline PBS 1 sterile solution from Amresco L glutamine L Glu liquid 200 mM penicillin streptomycin pen strep 100 fetal bovine serum FBS mycoplex and ACCUTASE a combination of protease and collagen in PBS with 0.5 mM EDTA from The Cell Culture Company PAA trypan blue dye from Merck and CELLTITER GLO luminescent cell viability assay from Promega bovine serum albumin and arginine hydrochloride from Sigma Aldrich sodium chloride from Merck Bradford reagent kit from Amresco carboplatin cis Diamine 1 1 cyclobutanedicarboxylato platinum II from Calbiochem Irinotecan hydrochloride USP reference standard from Rockville Md. .

EQUIPMENT a Jouan CR22 refrigerated centrifuge Jouan France a Memmert incubator type BE 400 Memmert Germany an inverted microscope from Olympus model CK30 a TECAN microplate luminometer TECAN USA an Infinite M200 NanoQuant TECAN multi detection microplate reader from TECAN USA and a Christ freeze drier model Alpha 1 4LD Germany .

A human small cell lung cancer SW1271 cell line was obtained from the American Type Cell Collection ATCC. According to ATCC standard protocols the anchorage dependent cell line was cultivated at an initial inoculums cell concentration of 10cells cmin 15 ml complete growth media CGM which consists of Leibovitz s L 15 medium supplemented with 10 FBS v v 0.3 g L of L Glu and 1 v v pen strep in a CORNING 75 cmcanted neck cell culture flask. The cultivated cells were incubated at 37 C. in CO free humidified atmosphere. The CGM was stored at 4 C. and warmed 37 C. for 15 min in a water bath prior to usage ATCC 2007 . Flasks containing the cultivated cells were checked at 24 h intervals for cell viability adherence morphology and confluence state using the inverted microscope. Cultures were examined for any macroscopic evidence of microbial contamination by the inverted microscope. Media was changed as needed when media color turns to yellow as Leibovitz s L 15 medium contains red phenol which becomes yellow at low pH levels and bright red at pH 7.4 which is suitable for cell culture ATCC 2007 .

When the monolayer of anchorage dependent cell line SW1271 is near 90 confluent they were subcultured according to protocols provided by the ATCC. After aspirating the CGM from the flasks the adherent cells were dissociated from the cell culture flask walls by pipetting 3 ml ACCUTASE. After an incubation period of 15 minutes with ACCUTASE at 37 C. cells were examined under the inverted microscope to be sure that most 95 cells were detached and dispersed into a single cell suspension ATCC 2007 .

Counting the viable cells was done using trypan blue dye exclusion which depends on counting the unstained cells that have not uptake the dye appearing rounded with halos following the below protocol NSF 2006 

Cell suspension was homogenized by gentle pipetting and then dispensed at a final density of 10cells cminto new cell culture flasks containing 15 ml of CGM. The flasks were regularly monitored to check for cell viability and microbial contamination ATCC 2007 .

When cells reached roughly 90 confluence they were harvested as described above using ACCUTASE as a dissociating agent. The ACCUTASE was removed by gentle centrifugation 10 min at 4 C. and 125 g with the refrigerated centrifuge the supernatant was discarded and cells were re suspended in 4 ml of CGM. The cells were counted using the trypan blue dye exclusion and 10cells were seeded into a CORNING COSTAR 96 well flat bottom cell culture microplate containing 200 l of CGM using 8 channel EPPENDORF micropipettor. The microplates were incubated at 37 C. in a free COhumidified environment for 24 hours ATCC 2007 .

After the 24 hour incubation the medium was discarded and replaced by new 180 l of CGM. A series of double dilutions of the concentrated lyophilized leech saliva extract 10 LSE was prepared. The 10 LSE was filtered through 0.2 m SARTORIUS sterile filter paper and 20 l aliquots were added to the first three rows of the microplate with the higher concentration in the first row and so forth making the total volume 200 l 180 l of CGM 20 l of 10 LSE . To the next three rows 20 l volumes of another double dilution series of a ten time concentrated of the phagostimulatory solution were added. Another negative control plate was prepared containing untreated cells 10cells well cultivated in 200 l of CGM.

Other plates were prepared following the same protocols by replacing 10 LSE by carboplatin and irinotecan as positive controls with a serial two fold dilution of both starting from 100 M in the first column. Two plates were prepared using 20 l volumes of a double dilution series of mixtures consisting of 

All plates were incubated at 37 C. in free COhumidified atmosphere for 5 days. The antiproliferative or the cytotoxic effect of leech saliva extract was performed using a CELLTITER GLO luminescent cell viability assay based on measuring the luminescence signal from the reaction between the ULTRA GLO recombinant luciferase and the ATP molecules produced by the metabolically viable cells in the presence of Mgand molecular oxygen from Promega 2009 . A CELLTITER GLO assay was performed according to standard protocols 

After an incubation period of 5 days at 37 C. in CO free humidified environment the cells reached almost 90 confluence. The cells were harvested by detaching them from the cell culture flask walls with ACCUTASE and centrifuged at 4 C. and 125 g for 10 minutes. Cell counting with a trypan blue method revealed that one flask contains approximately 5.550 5.740 10viable cells at near 90 confluence.

A combination of LSE and irinotecan showed an ICof 51.463 g ml which is about 57.1 less than the ICof LSE used alone. A combination of LSE and carboplatin show an ICof 114.261 g ml a 4.6 reduction in IC. Carboplatin showed a dramatic decline in ICvalue by 65 such that ICof carboplatin and LSE was 6.449 g ml.

The results suggest that LSE alone or in combination with other agents such as irinotecan or carboplatin could be useful in treating other forms of cancer such as prostate breast and liquid cancers such as leukemias and lymphomas. Acute myeloid leukemia is of particular interest.

This example shows the effectiveness of LSE in treating diabetes. The LSE isolation and total protein measurement was done according to the methods taught herein.

Sodium chloride arginine hydrochloride absolute ethanol and formaldehyde 37 from Merck Bradford reagent kit Amresco Inc. Parafilm membrane from American Can Company anhydrous glucose from Fisher Scientific alloxan monohydrate used to induce diabetes from Sigma Aldrich bovine serum albumin from Sigma Aldrich insulin from bovine pancreas 27 units mg from Sigma Aldrich the method of preparing Alloxan solution in ice cold normal saline immediately prior to injection from Lenzen 2008 .

Centrifugation was done using Universal 32R centrifuge from Hettich ZenTrifugen Germany microplate reader model INFINITE M200 NANOQUANT TECAN from TECAN USA lyophilization performed using a CHRIST freeze drier model Alpha 1 4LD Germany a ONE TOUCH ULTRA glucometer and test strips used for the determination of blood glucose concentration from LifeScan Inc. USA and a NIKON ECLIPSE 80i microscope.

Male rats of Sprague Dawley strain SD from Mikro Makmur Enterprise Kuantan Pahang Darul Makmur Malaysia were grouped randomly and kept at an animal post graduate laboratory in Kulliyyah of Pharmacy International Islamic University Malaysia IIUM maintained with an air conditioning system and exhaust fans. The rats were under a 12 h 12 h dark and light cycle at room temperature 25 C. . They were acclimatized to these conditions for one week prior to the experiment and housed in polypropylene cages lined with pine wood husk changed every two days. The rats were given free access to tap water and a commercial dry pellet diet Gold Coin. The experimental procedures were conducted according to Principles and Guide to Ethical Use of Laboratory Animals approved by Ministry of Health Malaysia Sinniah Hussein 2000 . The experimental protocols were approved by Ethics Committee Meeting No. 1 2011 on 22 Apr. 2011 of Kulliyyah of Medicine IIUM Ref. No. IIUM 305 20 4 10 .

The rats were fasted overnight and a type 1 like diabetes was induced by a single dose intraperitoneal i.p administration of freshly prepared alloxan solution 160 mg kg body weight b.w. Rajakopal Sasikala 2008 . In order to prevent fatal alloxan induced hypoglycemia the rats were administered a 20 glucose solution intraperitoneally followed by a 5 glucose solution orally for the next 12 hours Lenzen 2008 . The rats were then fed a commercial pellet diet ad libitium and given free access to tap water. All experimental animals were injected three times with alloxan at 24 hours intervals.

After 24 hours of alloxanisation the fasting blood glucose concentration FBG was measured every morning to check the diabetic state of the injected rats. All FBG values were taken from fresh capillary blood from a tail vein puncture and measurements were taken using a ONE TOUCH ULTRA glucometer. After three days of alloxan injection the rats showed FBG levels of more than 11.1 mmol L a level considered diabetic for the study Abeeleh et al. 2009 .

The antihyperglycemic activity of LSE was assessed by the fall in FBG values within eight hours. Fasting blood glucose FBG at two hour intervals was recorded during the experiment period for all the experimental animals. The percentage decrease in fasting blood glucose concentration was calculated from the following equation Madubunyi Onoja Asuzu 2010 

The prophylactic activity of LSE was assessed by measuring FBG after 24 hours of each injection. Rats that exhibited FBG values between 8.3 and 13.9 mmol L were considered as mild diabetic and those with FBG of more than 13.9 mmol L were considered as severe diabetic Gupta et al. 2009 .

Neither mortality nor a behavioural change was observed amongst the all saliva injected animals until the end of the study. All these animals exhibited typical locomotion and physical activity such as no signs of weakness or aggressiveness. No toxicity reaction were noticed for example no anorexia ataxia piloerection loss of weight diarrhoea urination breathing difficulty and noisy breathing. Simultaneous administration of LSE 250 g ml b.w and insulin 10 units kg b.w induced hypoglycemia with no mortality. No signs of acute toxicity were observed in rats injected subcutaneously with LSE at both doses of 1000 and 500 g kg b.w. On the other hand injection insulin at a dose of 20 units kg b.w resulted in a hypoglycemic condition in all rats leading to the death of one rat. The other rats which stayed alive showed less physical activity especially during the first two hours of injection.

This example will be used to show the effectiveness of LSE at treating a viral disease. The LSE isolation and total protein measurement will be done according to the methods taught herein.

A tissue culture generally a chicken embryo 3 6 days old will be infected in side the embryo membrane by a dose of live viruses hepatitis C HIV Dengue West Nile and Influenza H1N1 H5N1 if necessary a multiple infections will be used until the infection takes place.

After a period of incubation embryo growth and changes in their tissues will be monitored according to established procedures. This infected tissue culture will serve as a control. Three other cultured tissues will be prepared by the same method. In the first one four doses of LSE 100 250 500 1000 ug b.w will be injected before the viral infection. In the second tissue culture four doses of LSE 100 250500 1000 ug b.w will be injected at 1 2 3 4 hours after the viral infection. In third a tissue four doses of inactivated LSE 100 250 500 1000 ug b.w will be injected after and before infection. The aim in the third experiment is to analyze any change in signal pathways and comparison with the active LSE will be made in order to have an indication of the mechanism of action. The three cultured tissues treated after and before and with inactivated LSE will be monitored and compared to the control tissue.

The effect LSE on viral infection will be then deduced according to established procedures and will be compared to the conventional drugs like interferon.

This example will be used to show the effectiveness of LSE at treating a parasitic disease. The LSE isolation and total protein measurement will be done according to the methods taught herein.

In the case of malaria an animal model generally a mouse model will be injected by a dose of a malaria parasite the dose will be determined according to the virulence of the parasite Spp until the animals develop the desired symptoms of malaria. The sick animals will be injected SC or IV mode by two doses 500 1000 g K b.w LSE . After treatment blood drops will be taken from the mice tail on glass slides for examination under the microscope. or for ELIZA testing.

Blood smears will be taken from the tail of the mice daily and examined under a light microscope for seven days to monitor the activity of the LSE. The last H infected group will be treated with a standard antimalaria drug to monitor the relative activity and potency of LSE on the parasite.

This example shows the antioxidant activity of LSE. The LSE isolation and total protein measurement was done according to the methods taught herein.

Methanol MeOH from Fischer Scientific L Ascorbic acid from Calbiochem arginine hydrochloride bovine serum albumin BSA and DPPH 2 2 Diphenyl 1 picrylhydrazyl from Sigma Aldrich sodium chloride NaCl from Merck .

An Infinite M200 NanoQuant TECAN multi detection microplate reader from TECAN USA a Hettich ZenTrifugen Universal 32R centrifuge Germany a CHRIST freeze drier model Alpha 1 4LD Germany .

Antioxidant activity was determined using known methods Blois 1958 of measuring radical scavenging ability using 2 2 diphenyl 1 picrylhydrazyl DPPH Althunibat et al. 2009 Blois 1958 Sanja Sheth Patel Patel Patel 2009 

A dose dependent free radical scavenging activity was shown by the LSE having an ICof 7.282 g ml. Similarly L ascorbic acid was found to be a free radical scavenger with ICof 5.803 g ml.

Mueller Hinton agar MHA and Mueller Hinton broth MHB from Oxoid Ltd. potato dextrose agar PDA and potato dextrose broth PDB from Liofilchem antimicrobial susceptibility test discs containing 5 g disc ciprofloxacin and 100 units disc nystatin from Oxoid Ltd bovine serum albumin and arginine hydrochloride from Sigma Aldrich sodium chloride NaCl from Merck Bradford reagent kit from Amresco .

a Laminar Flow Hood Jouan Jouan SA France an incubator Memmert INB 400 and water bath Memmert WNB 22 from Memmert GmbH Germany a HIRAYAMA HV 85 Autoclave HIRAYAMA Corporation Japan a HITACHI U 1900 Spectrophotometer from HITACHI High Tech Japan sterile 96 well plates from Greiner Bio One Corporation a centrifuge Hettich ZenTrifugen Universal 32R Germany .

Reference strains of human pathogens were used including Gram positive bacterial spp. ATCC25923 and ATCC25923 Gram negative bacterial strains ATCC27853 ATCC35218 and from Institute of Medical Research Health Ministry IMR and two fungal strains ATCC10231 and ATCC90112 .

All media used during the experimental procedures were prepared according to the manufacturer instructions as the following 

Before pouring of agar the freshly prepared sterilized agar medium MHA PDA for bacterial fungal strains was allowed to cool in water bath adjusted at 50 C. for 15 30 minutes in order to prevent the formation of moisture droplets by condensation phenomenon. Thereafter a volume of about 20 25 ml was poured into disposable flat bottom sterile gamma irradiated Petri dishes to a height of 4 mm avoiding trapping any air bubbles. The plates with lids ajar were left to equilibrate at room temperature for about 15 minutes under the laminar flow to get rid of excess surface moisture and temperature. Finally the plates were covered inverted downside upwards and stored in the refrigerator 4 C. to be used within a maximum period of one week. Before inoculation of the agar containing plates they were equilibrated to room temperature for about one hour in order to minimize condensation Coyle 2005 Goldman Green 2009 Lalitha 2004 .

A turbid metric assay was carried out to standardize the microorganism number used for inoculation. The Direct Colony Suspension method was used to prepare inoculation suspension Coyle 2005 Goldman Green 2009 Lalitha 2004 Rex Pfaller Rinaldi Polak Galgiani 1993 . Experimental procedures include the following steps 

After the incubation period the zone of inhibition mm around each disc was measured using a ruler and compared with the reference antibiotics used.

Microdilution was used to determine the minimal inhibitory concentration MIC which is the minimal concentration of LSE protein content that can inhibit the growth of the test organism. Serial double fold dilutions of LSE were carried out in a sterile 96 well plate. 100 l of sterile Mueller Hinton broth was pipetted into the first five columns wells of the plate. 100 l of LSE was mixed with the broth in the first three wells of the first row of the plate. Dilutions were made by transferring 100 l aliquots of the mixture from the first three wells into the next ones vertically and so forth. 10 l of the test organism suspension broth containing 10CFU ml was pipetted into each well of the first four columns but no inoculum was added to the fifth column. The fourth and the fifth columns were considered as positive broth with inoculum and negative control broth only respectively. The plate was covered wrapped with parafilm sheets around the edges to avoid dehydrating and incubated for 24 hours at 37 C. After the incubation period the MIC endpoint was determined by a lack of turbidity in the well.

The antibacterial and antifungal activities of the fresh LSE and the lyophilized samples are shown in Table 3 with ciproflaxin and nystatin where the LSE is shown to have desired activity.

This example discusses an in vitro assessment of the activity of LSE as applied to cancer and non cancer cell lines.

In order to test the LSE for it s anticancer efficacy it can be applied to additional cell lines that include for example MCF 7 breast PC 3 prostate K562 leukemia MeWo skin melanoma Mia PaCa 2 pancreatic carcinoma A549 lung cancer U87MG brain tumor glioblastoma MCF10A normal epithelial cells HT 29 colon carcinoma CaCo 2 normal intestinal epithelial cells HEP 3B human hepatoma liver cancer ES 2 ovarian carcinoma HBEpC normal human epithelial cells CCRF CEM leukemia HL 60 TB leukemia MOLT 4 leukemia RPMI 8226 leukemia SR leukemia EKVX non small cell lung HOP 62 non small cell lung HOP 92 non small cell lung . NCI H226 non small cell lung NCI H23 non small cell lung NCI H322M non small cell lung NCI H460 non small cell lung NCI H522 non small cell lung COLO 205 colon HCC 2998 colon HCT 116 colon HCT 15 colon KM12 colon SW 620 colon SF 268 CNS SF 295 CNS SF 539 CNS SNB 19 CNS SNB 75 CNS U251 CNS LOX IMVI melanoma MALME 3M melanoma M14 melanoma SK MEL 2 melanoma SK MEL 28 melanoma SK MEL 5 melanoma UACC 257 melanoma UACC 62 melanoma IGR OVI ovarian OVCAR 3 ovarian OVCAR 4 ovarian OVCAR 5 ovarian OVCAR 8 ovarian SK OV 3 ovarian 786 0 renal A498 renal ACHN renal CAKI 1 renal RXF 393 renal SN12C renal TK 10 renal UO 31 renal DU 145 prostate NCl ADR RES breast MDA MB 231 ATCC breast HS 578T breast MDA MB 435 breast MDA MB 468 breast BT 549 breast T 47D breast Saos 2 bone cancer .

a 96 well flat bottom plate MTT 3 4 5 dimethylthiazol 2 yl 2 5 diphenyl tetrazolium bromide Sigma catalogue M2128 reagent reservoirs a multi channel pipette a multichannel repeater pipette a set of single pipettors 10 L 200 L 1000 L and various pipette tips.

Growth media reagents and serum including Dulbecco s Modified Eagle Media DMEM high glucose RPMI 1640 media Iscove s Hank s Buffered Salt Solution L glutamine Fetal Bovine Serum and Trypsin EDTA.

To perform the MTT cytotoxicity assay produce a stock solution of 5 mg MTT ml PBS phosphate buffered saline use a sterile filter with 0.22 M syringe filter and store at 4 C. in the dark. Produce a working solution of 1 mg ml dilute MTT stock solution with 1 4 v v in pre warmed culture medium.

Two cell lines can be plated on one 96 well plate such that tests are completed in triplicate for each K562 is non adherent for example and so should be on separate plate . Adherent cell lines must be plated one day prior to adding drugs to allow the cells to adhere to the plate whereas non adherent cells suspension cells can be plated on the same day Day 2 prior to adding drugs.

Cells are first counted on the hemocytometer to observe the viability of the cells which should be greater than or equal to 90 . If this is not the case the live cells should be separated from the dead cells using Ficoll Paque 3 mL per 4 mL of cells centrifuge for 25 min at 1500 rpm wash cells once with culture medium 5 min at 1500 rpm . The number of cells to be plated per well varies with the growth rate of the cell line. The ideal optical density O.D. of the control cells should be between 1.00 and 2.00 by the end of the incubation time. Due to increased rate of evaporation along the border of the wells of the plate it is not used for the assay but is filled with 200 l of sterile water.

Column B2 G2 is used as the blank and is filled with 200 l of medium. Column B3 G3 is the control column with 100 l of cells only. Drug is added to the cells in triplicate therefore columns B4 D4 B5 D5 B6 D6 etc. to B11 D11 allows for 8 different concentrations of drug to be tested. This applied to the bottom half of the plate as well.

When adding cells to the plate to make sure that the cells are well suspended so that the same number of cells will be added to each well. Leave the plate in an incubator overnight for adherent cell lines to settle on the plate.

If there are adherent cells aspirate the used medium and add 100 l of fresh medium. Add 100 l of drug of desired concentration in each well. Since the total volume of the medium per well is 200 l dilute the drug accordingly. If you want the final concentration of drug to be 10 M in the well for example you will have to make a 20 M solution 100 l of this plus 100 l of your medium will give you a 10 mol solution in a total of 200 l . Add 100 l of medium to wells in the control column B3 G3 . Return plate to incubator 72 hours

At the end of the incubation period add 50 l per well of MTT working solution to all of the wells. Return plate to incubator for 3 4 hours and keep incubation times constant for repeat experiments. Set up your assay template on the plate reader. After 3 4 hours remove plates from incubator. If the cells are non adherent they must be spun down for 10 minutes at 1800 rpm. Tip the 96 well plate on a 45 angle towards yourself. Using a 10 100 l pipet tip attached to the vacuum aspirate supernatant from each well. Add 150 l DMSO per well.

Resuspend cells by placing plate on the plate shaker 5 10 min should be long enough . If needed resuspend tough cells by hand using the multichannel pipette being careful not to create bubbles. The best way to get rid of any bubbles in a 96 well plate is to direct a gentle stream of air onto the plate. Place plate into spectrophotometer and read at 570 nm.

The following records will be collected growth cell optimization for each cell line cytotoxicity of LSE and cell viability graphs.

