---

title: Cloud queue access control
abstract: An example implementation may involve a computing system receiving, from a media playback system, a request to initiate playback of a cloud queue. The cloud queue may currently have a first access status that authorizes a first set of queue operations, which may include playback of the cloud queue. After receiving the request to initiate playback, the computing system may cause audio tracks of the cloud queue to be queued in a local queue of the media playback system such that the media playback system may playback audio tracks of the cloud queue via the local queue. The computing system may modify the access status of the cloud queue to a second access status. This second access status may authorize a second set of queue operations on the cloud queue. The computing system may cause access to the local queue to be restricted to the second set of queue operations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09648070&OS=09648070&RS=09648070
owner: Sonos, Inc.
number: 09648070
owner_city: Santa Barbara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160415
---
This application claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 616 325 filed Feb. 6 2015 entitled Cloud Queue Access Control. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 616 325 claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 62 007 906 filed Jun. 4 2014 entitled Cloud Queue which is also incorporated herein in its entirety.

This application is related to the following applications filed on the same day as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 616 325 the contents of each are incorporated by reference herein U.S. application Ser. No. 14 616 310 filed Feb. 6 2015 entitled Cloud Queue Access Control U.S. application Ser. No. 14 616 319 filed Feb. 6 2015 entitled Cloud Queue Access Control U.S. application Ser. No. 14 616 332 filed Feb. 6 2015 entitled Cloud Queue Sync Protocol U.S. application Ser. No. 14 616 341 filed Feb. 6 2015 entitled Cloud Queue Playback Policy and U.S. application Ser. No. 14 616 364 filed Feb. 6 2015 entitled Cloud Queue Playhead. 

The disclosure is related to consumer goods and more particularly to methods systems products features services and other elements directed to media playback or some aspect thereof.

Options for accessing and listening to digital audio in an out loud setting were limited until in 2003 when SONOS Inc. filed for one of its first patent applications entitled Method for Synchronizing Audio Playback between Multiple Networked Devices and began offering a media playback system for sale in 2005. The Sonos Wireless HiFi System enables people to experience music from many sources via one or more networked playback devices. Through a software control application installed on a smartphone tablet or computer one can play what he or she wants in any room that has a networked playback device. Additionally using the controller for example different songs can be streamed to each room with a playback device rooms can be grouped together for synchronous playback or the same song can be heard in all rooms synchronously.

Given the ever growing interest in digital media there continues to be a need to develop consumer accessible technologies to further enhance the listening experience.

The drawings are for the purpose of illustrating example embodiments but it is understood that the inventions are not limited to the arrangements and instrumentality shown in the drawings.

Embodiments described herein may involve inter alia controlling access to a cloud based playback queue cloud queue . In some embodiments a computing system may maintain or have access to a cloud queue of media items. Such a computing system may assist in providing a cloud service. One aspect of the cloud service may involve providing a media playback system or multiple media playback systems access to the cloud queue. Access to the cloud queue may involve a variety of operations with respect to cloud queue. For instance access to the queue may involve playback of the queue by a media playback system perhaps in synchrony with other media playback systems or modifications to the queue perhaps by adding or removing media items or by modifying the ordering of the media items . When access to a cloud queue is controlled certain entities might be permitted to access the cloud queue while other entities might be prohibited.

Some example techniques may involve controlling access to a cloud queue based on the identity of the entity that is accessing the cloud queue. For instance controlling access to a given cloud queue may involve authenticating certain media playback systems to access the cloud queue and perhaps prohibiting other media playback systems from accessing the cloud queue . Alternatively certain user accounts accounts may be authenticated to access the cloud queue perhaps by way of a device that is associated with the account. For example an account that is associated with a given device of a media playback system may access the cloud queue by way of the device. As another example controlling access to a given cloud queue may involve authenticating certain a certain device or group of devices of a media playback system to access the cloud queue.

A mechanism to control access to a cloud queue may include use of one or more authentication tokens. For instance an authentication token may authenticate the entity bearing the token to access the cloud queue. A host of a cloud queue e.g. a remote computing system may restrict access to entities having a valid authentication token. The entity might be a media playback system a device or group of devices or a user account among other examples. In some cases a given authentication token might authenticate an entity with general access rights. In other cases an authentication token might authenticate the entity with session specific rights that authenticate the entity for the duration of a given session.

In some examples a host of a cloud queue may restrict entities to one of two or more different levels or types of access. For instance the host may grant a first type of access to a first entity e.g. a media playback system and a second type of access to a second entity e.g. another media playback system . In some embodiments the first type of access and the second type of access may include read access and full access respectively. Full access may authenticate an entity to perform a full set of operations with respect to a cloud queue. Such operations may include queue playback and queue manipulation among other examples. In contrast read access may authenticate an entity to perform a subset of operations with respect to the cloud queue such as queue playback or display of the queue.

Other example techniques may involve controlling access to a cloud queue based on a configuration or settings of the cloud queue itself. For instance a host of a cloud queue may assign one of two or more different status to a cloud queue. In one example a cloud queue may be initially assigned a first status. While the cloud queue has the first status the cloud queue may have full availability. At some point thereafter the access status of the cloud queue may be modified to a second access status. While the cloud queue has the second status the cloud queue may have limited availability. Limited availability might involve no access to the queue by entities or perhaps access that is limited to a subset of operations on the queue. For instance under limited access playback of the queue might be permitted but modification of the queue might be restricted. A host may modify the access status based on detecting a trigger such as a passage of a threshold duration of time or perhaps reaching a metric indicating a threshold amount of playback of the cloud queue among other examples.

As indicated above example techniques may involve controlling access to a cloud queue based on an authorization token. In one aspect a method is provided. The method may involve obtaining an authorization token corresponding to a particular queue of media items at a remote server. The method may also involve sending i the obtained authorization token and ii a request for access to one or more media items of the particular queue. The method may further involve receiving an indication that the media playback system may access the one or more media items.

In another aspect a device is provided. The device includes a network interface at least one processor a data storage and program logic stored in the data storage and executable by the at least one processor to perform functions. The functions may include obtaining an authorization token corresponding to a particular queue of media items at a remote server. The functions may also include sending i the obtained authorization token and ii a request for access to one or more media items of the particular queue. The functions may further include receiving an indication that the media playback system may access the one or more media items.

In yet another aspect a non transitory computer readable memory is provided. The non transitory computer readable memory has stored thereon instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to perform functions. The functions may include obtaining an authorization token corresponding to a particular queue of media items at a remote server. The functions may also include sending i the obtained authorization token and ii a request for access to one or more media items of the particular queue. The functions may further include receiving an indication that the media playback system may access the one or more media items.

In yet another aspect another method is provided. The method may involve receiving i an authorization token associated with a particular media playback system and ii a request for access by the media playback system to a queue of media items. The method may also involve determining the access to the queue that the authorization token authenticates to the media playback system. The method may further involve providing the media playback system the access to the media items that the authorization token authenticates to the media playback system.

In another aspect a device is provided. The device includes a network interface at least one processor a data storage and program logic stored in the data storage and executable by the at least one processor to perform functions. The functions may include receiving i an authorization token associated with a particular media playback system and ii a request for access by the media playback system to a queue of media items. The functions may also include determining the access to the queue that the authorization token authenticates to the media playback system. The functions may further include providing the media playback system the access to the media items that the authorization token authenticates to the media playback system.

In yet another aspect a non transitory computer readable memory is provided. The non transitory computer readable memory has stored thereon instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to perform functions. The functions may include receiving i an authorization token associated with a particular media playback system and ii a request for access by the media playback system to a queue of media items. The functions may also include determining the access to the queue that the authorization token authenticates to the media playback system. The functions may further include providing the media playback system the access to the media items that the authorization token authenticates to the media playback system.

Also as indicated above example techniques may involve granting entities respective types of access. In one aspect a method is provided. The method may involve receiving i a request from a first media playback system for access to a queue of media items and ii a request from a second media playback system for access to the queue of media items. The method may also involve granting i a first type of access to the first media playback system and ii a second type of access to the second media playback system. The first type of access may authorize the first media playback system to perform a first set of operations on the queue of media items and a second type of access may authorize the second media playback system to perform a second set of operations on the queue of media items that is different from the first set of operations. The method may further involve providing i an indication that the first media playback system may access the queue as authorized by the first type of access and ii an indication that the second media playback system may access the queue as authorized by the second type of access.

In another aspect a device is provided. The device includes a network interface at least one processor a data storage and program logic stored in the data storage and executable by the at least one processor to perform functions. The functions may include receiving i respective requests from a plurality of first media playback systems for respective access to a queue of media items and ii a request from a second media playback system for access to the queue of media items. The functions may also include granting i a first type of access to the first media playback systems and ii a second type of access to the second media playback system. The first type of access may authorize the first media playback system to perform a first set of operations on the queue of media items and a second type of access may authorize the second media playback system to perform a second set of operations on the queue of media items that is different from the first set of operations. The functions may further include providing i the first media playback systems access to the queue as authorized by the first type of access rights and ii the second media playback system access to the queue as authorized by the second type of access rights.

In yet another aspect a non transitory computer readable memory is provided. The non transitory computer readable memory has stored thereon instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to perform functions. The functions may include receiving i respective requests from a plurality of first media playback systems for respective access to a queue of media items and ii a request from a second media playback system for access to the queue of media items. The functions may also include granting i a first type of access to the first media playback systems and ii a second type of access to the second media playback system. The first type of access may authorize the first media playback system to perform a first set of operations on the queue of media items and a second type of access may authorize the second media playback system to perform a second set of operations on the queue of media items that is different from the first set of operations. The functions may further include providing i the first media playback systems access to the queue as authorized by the first type of access rights and ii the second media playback system access to the queue as authorized by the second type of access rights.

In yet another aspect another method is provided. The method may involve sending a request for access to a queue of media items. The method may also involve receiving an indication that the media playback system may access the queue as authorized by a first type of access. The first type of access may authorize the first media playback system to perform a first set of operations on the queue of media items and a second type of access may authorize the second media playback system to perform a second set of operations on the queue of media items that is different from the first set of operations. The method may further involve receiving an indication of one or more media items of the queue.

In another aspect a device is provided. The device includes a network interface at least one processor a data storage and program logic stored in the data storage and executable by the at least one processor to perform functions. The functions may include sending a request for access to a queue of media items. The functions may also include receiving an indication that the media playback system may access the queue as authorized by a first type of access. The first type of access may authorize the first media playback system to perform a first set of operations on the queue of media items and a second type of access may authorize the second media playback system to perform a second set of operations on the queue of media items that is different from the first set of operations. The functions may further include receiving an indication of one or more media items of the queue.

In yet another aspect a non transitory computer readable memory is provided. The non transitory computer readable memory has stored thereon instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to perform functions. The functions may include sending a request for access to a queue of media items. The functions may also include receiving an indication that the media playback system may access the queue as authorized by a first type of access. The first type of access may authorize the first media playback system to perform a first set of operations on the queue of media items and a second type of access may authorize the second media playback system to perform a second set of operations on the queue of media items that is different from the first set of operations. The functions may further include receiving an indication of one or more media items of the queue.

As further indicated above example techniques may involve controlling access to a cloud queue based on a configuration or settings of the cloud queue itself. In one aspect a method is provided. The method may involve receiving a request to establish a queue of media items. The method may also involve assigning a first access status to the queue. The first access status may indicate that at least one media playback system is authorized to perform a first set of queue operations. After assigning the first access status to the queue the method may involve detecting a trigger that indicates a change in access status of the queue. Based on the detected trigger the method may involve modifying the access status of the queue from the first access status to a second access status. The second access status may indicate that the at least one media playback system is authorized to perform a second set of queue operations that is different from the first set of queue operations. The method may also involve sending an indication of the second access status to a media playback system.

In another aspect a device is provided. The device includes a network interface at least one processor a data storage and program logic stored in the data storage and executable by the at least one processor to perform functions. The functions may include receiving a request to establish a queue of media items. The functions may also include assigning a first access status to the queue. The first access status may indicate that at least one media playback system is authorized to perform a first set of queue operations. After assigning the first access status to the queue the functions may include detecting a trigger that indicates a change in access status of the queue. The functions may include modifying the access status of the queue from the first access status to a second access status based on the detected trigger. The second access status may indicate that the at least one media playback system is authorized to perform a second set of queue operations that is different from the first set of queue operations. The functions may also include sending an indication of the second access status to a media playback system.

In yet another aspect a non transitory computer readable memory is provided. The non transitory computer readable memory has stored thereon instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to perform functions. The functions may include receiving a request to establish a queue of media items. The functions may also include assigning a first access status to the queue. The first access status may indicate that at least one media playback system is authorized to perform a first set of queue operations. After assigning the first access status to the queue the functions may include detecting a trigger that indicates a change in access status of the queue. The functions may include modifying the access status of the queue from the first access status to a second access status based on the detected trigger. The second access status may indicate that the at least one media playback system is authorized to perform a second set of queue operations that is different from the first set of queue operations. The functions may also include sending an indication of the second access status to a media playback system.

In yet another aspect another method is provided. The method may involve receiving i an indication of a queue of media items and ii an indication that the queue has a first access status. The first access status may indicate that the playback device is authorized to perform a first set of queue operations. The method may also involve establishing a local instance of the queue. The method may further involve receiving an indication that the queue has been assigned a second access status. The second access status may indicate that the playback device is authorized to perform a second set of queue operations that is different from the first set of queue operations. The method may involve restricting the local instance of the queue to the second set of queue operations.

In another aspect a device is provided. The device includes a network interface at least one processor a data storage and program logic stored in the data storage and executable by the at least one processor to perform functions. The functions may include receiving i an indication of a queue of media items and ii an indication that the queue has a first access status. The first access status may indicate that the playback device is authorized to perform a first set of queue operations. The functions may also include establishing a local instance of the queue. The functions may further include receiving an indication that the queue has been assigned a second access status. The second access status may indicate that the playback device is authorized to perform a second set of queue operations that is different from the first set of queue operations. The functions may include restricting the local instance of the queue to the second set of queue operations.

In yet another aspect a non transitory computer readable memory is provided. The non transitory computer readable memory has stored thereon instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to perform functions. The functions may include receiving i an indication of a queue of media items and ii an indication that the queue has a first access status. The first access status may indicate that the playback device is authorized to perform a first set of queue operations. The functions may also include establishing a local instance of the queue. The functions may further include receiving an indication that the queue has been assigned a second access status. The second access status may indicate that the playback device is authorized to perform a second set of queue operations that is different from the first set of queue operations. The functions may include restricting the local instance of the queue to the second set of queue operations.

In another aspect a method is provided. The method may involve displaying an indication of a queue on a graphical interface. The method may further involve receiving an indication of an access status of the queue. The method may also involve displaying an indication of the access status of the queue.

In another aspect a device is provided. The device includes a network interface at least one processor a data storage and program logic stored in the data storage and executable by the at least one processor to perform functions. The functions may include displaying an indication of a queue on a graphical interface. The functions may further include receiving an indication of an access status of the queue. The functions may also include displaying an indication of the access status of the queue.

In yet another aspect a non transitory computer readable memory is provided. The non transitory computer readable memory has stored thereon instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to perform functions. The functions may include displaying an indication of a queue on a graphical interface. The functions may further include receiving an indication of an access status of the queue. The functions may also include displaying an indication of the access status of the queue.

It will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that this disclosure includes numerous other embodiments. It will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that this disclosure includes numerous other embodiments. While some examples described herein may refer to functions performed by given actors such as users and or other entities it should be understood that this description is for purposes of explanation only. The claims should not be interpreted to require action by any such example actor unless explicitly required by the language of the claims themselves.

Further discussions relating to the different components of the example media playback system and how the different components may interact to provide a user with a media experience may be found in the following sections. While discussions herein may generally refer to the example media playback system technologies described herein are not limited to applications within among other things the home environment as shown in . For instance the technologies described herein may be useful in environments where multi zone audio may be desired such as for example a commercial setting like a restaurant mall or airport a vehicle like a sports utility vehicle SUV bus or car a ship or boat an airplane and so on.

In one example the processor may be a clock driven computing component configured to process input data according to instructions stored in the memory . The memory may be a tangible computer readable medium configured to store instructions executable by the processor . For instance the memory may be data storage that can be loaded with one or more of the software components executable by the processor to achieve certain functions. In one example the functions may involve the playback device retrieving audio data from an audio source or another playback device. In another example the functions may involve the playback device sending audio data to another device or playback device on a network. In yet another example the functions may involve pairing of the playback device with one or more playback devices to create a multi channel audio environment.

Certain functions may involve the playback device synchronizing playback of audio content with one or more other playback devices. During synchronous playback a listener will preferably not be able to perceive time delay differences between playback of the audio content by the playback device and the one or more other playback devices. U.S. Pat. No. 8 234 395 entitled System and method for synchronizing operations among a plurality of independently clocked digital data processing devices which is hereby incorporated by reference provides in more detail some examples for audio playback synchronization among playback devices.

The memory may further be configured to store data associated with the playback device such as one or more zones and or zone groups the playback device is a part of audio sources accessible by the playback device or a playback queue that the playback device or some other playback device may be associated with. The data may be stored as one or more state variables that are periodically updated and used to describe the state of the playback device . The memory may also include the data associated with the state of the other devices of the media system and shared from time to time among the devices so that one or more of the devices have the most recent data associated with the system. Other embodiments are also possible.

The audio processing components may include one or more digital to analog converters DAC an audio preprocessing component an audio enhancement component or a digital signal processor DSP and so on. In one embodiment one or more of the audio processing components may be a subcomponent of the processor . In one example audio content may be processed and or intentionally altered by the audio processing components to produce audio signals. The produced audio signals may then be provided to the audio amplifier s for amplification and playback through speaker s . Particularly the audio amplifier s may include devices configured to amplify audio signals to a level for driving one or more of the speakers . The speaker s may include an individual transducer e.g. a driver or a complete speaker system involving an enclosure with one or more drivers. A particular driver of the speaker s may include for example a subwoofer e.g. for low frequencies a mid range driver e.g. for middle frequencies and or a tweeter e.g. for high frequencies . In some cases each transducer in the one or more speakers may be driven by an individual corresponding audio amplifier of the audio amplifier s . In addition to producing analog signals for playback by the playback device the audio processing components may be configured to process audio content to be sent to one or more other playback devices for playback.

Audio content to be processed and or played back by the playback device may be received from an external source such as via an audio line in input connection e.g. an auto detecting 3.5 mm audio line in connection or the network interface .

The network interface may be configured to facilitate a data flow between the playback device and one or more other devices on a data network. As such the playback device may be configured to receive audio content over the data network from one or more other playback devices in communication with the playback device network devices within a local area network or audio content sources over a wide area network such as the Internet. In one example the audio content and other signals transmitted and received by the playback device may be transmitted in the form of digital packet data containing an Internet Protocol IP based source address and IP based destination addresses. In such a case the network interface may be configured to parse the digital packet data such that the data destined for the playback device is properly received and processed by the playback device .

As shown the network interface may include wireless interface s and wired interface s . The wireless interface s may provide network interface functions for the playback device to wirelessly communicate with other devices e.g. other playback device s speaker s receiver s network device s control device s within a data network the playback device is associated with in accordance with a communication protocol e.g. any wireless standard including IEEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g 802.11n 802.11ac 802.15 4G mobile communication standard and so on . The wired interface s may provide network interface functions for the playback device to communicate over a wired connection with other devices in accordance with a communication protocol e.g. IEEE 802.3 . While the network interface shown in includes both wireless interface s and wired interface s the network interface may in some embodiments include only wireless interface s or only wired interface s .

In one example the playback device and one other playback device may be paired to play two separate audio components of audio content. For instance playback device may be configured to play a left channel audio component while the other playback device may be configured to play a right channel audio component thereby producing or enhancing a stereo effect of the audio content. The paired playback devices also referred to as bonded playback devices may further play audio content in synchrony with other playback devices.

In another example the playback device may be sonically consolidated with one or more other playback devices to form a single consolidated playback device. A consolidated playback device may be configured to process and reproduce sound differently than an unconsolidated playback device or playback devices that are paired because a consolidated playback device may have additional speaker drivers through which audio content may be rendered. For instance if the playback device is a playback device designed to render low frequency range audio content i.e. a subwoofer the playback device may be consolidated with a playback device designed to render full frequency range audio content. In such a case the full frequency range playback device when consolidated with the low frequency playback device may be configured to render only the mid and high frequency components of audio content while the low frequency range playback device renders the low frequency component of the audio content. The consolidated playback device may further be paired with a single playback device or yet another consolidated playback device.

By way of illustration SONOS Inc. presently offers or has offered for sale certain playback devices including a PLAY 1 PLAY 3 PLAY 5 PLAYBAR CONNECT AMP CONNECT and SUB. Any other past present and or future playback devices may additionally or alternatively be used to implement the playback devices of example embodiments disclosed herein. Additionally it is understood that a playback device is not limited to the example illustrated in or to the SONOS product offerings. For example a playback device may include a wired or wireless headphone. In another example a playback device may include or interact with a docking station for personal mobile media playback devices. In yet another example a playback device may be integral to another device or component such as a television a lighting fixture or some other device for indoor or outdoor use.

Referring back to the media playback system of the environment may have one or more playback zones each with one or more playback devices. The media playback system may be established with one or more playback zones after which one or more zones may be added or removed to arrive at the example configuration shown in . Each zone may be given a name according to a different room or space such as an office bathroom master bedroom bedroom kitchen dining room living room and or balcony. In one case a single playback zone may include multiple rooms or spaces. In another case a single room or space may include multiple playback zones.

As shown in the balcony dining room kitchen bathroom office and bedroom zones each have one playback device while the living room and master bedroom zones each have multiple playback devices. In the living room zone playback devices and may be configured to play audio content in synchrony as individual playback devices as one or more bonded playback devices as one or more consolidated playback devices or any combination thereof. Similarly in the case of the master bedroom playback devices and may be configured to play audio content in synchrony as individual playback devices as a bonded playback device or as a consolidated playback device.

In one example one or more playback zones in the environment of may each be playing different audio content. For instance the user may be grilling in the balcony zone and listening to hip hop music being played by the playback device while another user may be preparing food in the kitchen zone and listening to classical music being played by the playback device . In another example a playback zone may play the same audio content in synchrony with another playback zone. For instance the user may be in the office zone where the playback device is playing the same rock music that is being playing by playback device in the balcony zone. In such a case playback devices and may be playing the rock music in synchrony such that the user may seamlessly or at least substantially seamlessly enjoy the audio content that is being played out loud while moving between different playback zones. Synchronization among playback zones may be achieved in a manner similar to that of synchronization among playback devices as described in previously referenced U.S. Pat. No. 8 234 395.

As suggested above the zone configurations of the media playback system may be dynamically modified and in some embodiments the media playback system supports numerous configurations. For instance if a user physically moves one or more playback devices to or from a zone the media playback system may be reconfigured to accommodate the change s . For instance if the user physically moves the playback device from the balcony zone to the office zone the office zone may now include both the playback device and the playback device . The playback device may be paired or grouped with the office zone and or renamed if so desired via a control device such as the control devices and . On the other hand if the one or more playback devices are moved to a particular area in the home environment that is not already a playback zone a new playback zone may be created for the particular area.

Further different playback zones of the media playback system may be dynamically combined into zone groups or split up into individual playback zones. For instance the dining room zone and the kitchen zone may be combined into a zone group for a dinner party such that playback devices and may render audio content in synchrony. On the other hand the living room zone may be split into a television zone including playback device and a listening zone including playback devices and if the user wishes to listen to music in the living room space while another user wishes to watch television.

The processor may be configured to perform functions relevant to facilitating user access control and configuration of the media playback system . The memory may be configured to store instructions executable by the processor to perform those functions. The memory may also be configured to store the media playback system controller application software and other data associated with the media playback system and the user.

In one example the network interface may be based on an industry standard e.g. infrared radio wired standards including IEEE 802.3 wireless standards including IEEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g 802.11n 802.11ac 802.15 4G mobile communication standard and so on . The network interface may provide a means for the control device to communicate with other devices in the media playback system . In one example data and information e.g. such as a state variable may be communicated between control device and other devices via the network interface . For instance playback zone and zone group configurations in the media playback system may be received by the control device from a playback device or another network device or transmitted by the control device to another playback device or network device via the network interface . In some cases the other network device may be another control device.

Playback device control commands such as volume control and audio playback control may also be communicated from the control device to a playback device via the network interface . As suggested above changes to configurations of the media playback system may also be performed by a user using the control device . The configuration changes may include adding removing one or more playback devices to from a zone adding removing one or more zones to from a zone group forming a bonded or consolidated player separating one or more playback devices from a bonded or consolidated player among others. Accordingly the control device may sometimes be referred to as a controller whether the control device is a dedicated controller or a network device on which media playback system controller application software is installed.

The user interface of the control device may be configured to facilitate user access and control of the media playback system by providing a controller interface such as the controller interface shown in . The controller interface includes a playback control region a playback zone region a playback status region a playback queue region and an audio content sources region . The user interface as shown is just one example of a user interface that may be provided on a network device such as the control device of and or the control devices and of and accessed by users to control a media playback system such as the media playback system . Other user interfaces of varying formats styles and interactive sequences may alternatively be implemented on one or more network devices to provide comparable control access to a media playback system.

The playback control region may include selectable e.g. by way of touch or by using a cursor icons to cause playback devices in a selected playback zone or zone group to play or pause fast forward rewind skip to next skip to previous enter exit shuffle mode enter exit repeat mode enter exit cross fade mode. The playback control region may also include selectable icons to modify equalization settings and playback volume among other possibilities.

The playback zone region may include representations of playback zones within the media playback system . In some embodiments the graphical representations of playback zones may be selectable to bring up additional selectable icons to manage or configure the playback zones in the media playback system such as a creation of bonded zones creation of zone groups separation of zone groups and renaming of zone groups among other possibilities.

For example as shown a group icon may be provided within each of the graphical representations of playback zones. The group icon provided within a graphical representation of a particular zone may be selectable to bring up options to select one or more other zones in the media playback system to be grouped with the particular zone. Once grouped playback devices in the zones that have been grouped with the particular zone will be configured to play audio content in synchrony with the playback device s in the particular zone. Analogously a group icon may be provided within a graphical representation of a zone group. In this case the group icon may be selectable to bring up options to deselect one or more zones in the zone group to be removed from the zone group. Other interactions and implementations for grouping and ungrouping zones via a user interface such as the user interface are also possible. The representations of playback zones in the playback zone region may be dynamically updated as playback zone or zone group configurations are modified.

The playback status region may include graphical representations of audio content that is presently being played previously played or scheduled to play next in the selected playback zone or zone group. The selected playback zone or zone group may be visually distinguished on the user interface such as within the playback zone region and or the playback status region . The graphical representations may include track title artist name album name album year track length and other relevant information that may be useful for the user to know when controlling the media playback system via the user interface .

The playback queue region may include graphical representations of audio content in a playback queue associated with the selected playback zone or zone group. In some embodiments each playback zone or zone group may be associated with a playback queue containing information corresponding to zero or more audio items for playback by the playback zone or zone group. For instance each audio item in the playback queue may comprise a uniform resource identifier URI a uniform resource locator URL or some other identifier that may be used by a playback device in the playback zone or zone group to find and or retrieve the audio item from a local audio content source or a networked audio content source possibly for playback by the playback device.

In one example a playlist may be added to a playback queue in which case information corresponding to each audio item in the playlist may be added to the playback queue. In another example audio items in a playback queue may be saved as a playlist. In a further example a playback queue may be empty or populated but not in use when the playback zone or zone group is playing continuously streaming audio content such as Internet radio that may continue to play until otherwise stopped rather than discrete audio items that have playback durations. In an alternative embodiment a playback queue can include Internet radio and or other streaming audio content items and be in use when the playback zone or zone group is playing those items. Other examples are also possible.

When playback zones or zone groups are grouped or ungrouped playback queues associated with the affected playback zones or zone groups may be cleared or re associated. For example if a first playback zone including a first playback queue is grouped with a second playback zone including a second playback queue the established zone group may have an associated playback queue that is initially empty that contains audio items from the first playback queue such as if the second playback zone was added to the first playback zone that contains audio items from the second playback queue such as if the first playback zone was added to the second playback zone or a combination of audio items from both the first and second playback queues. Subsequently if the established zone group is ungrouped the resulting first playback zone may be re associated with the previous first playback queue or be associated with a new playback queue that is empty or contains audio items from the playback queue associated with the established zone group before the established zone group was ungrouped. Similarly the resulting second playback zone may be re associated with the previous second playback queue or be associated with a new playback queue that is empty or contains audio items from the playback queue associated with the established zone group before the established zone group was ungrouped. Other examples are also possible.

Referring back to the user interface of the graphical representations of audio content in the playback queue region may include track titles artist names track lengths and other relevant information associated with the audio content in the playback queue. In one example graphical representations of audio content may be selectable to bring up additional selectable icons to manage and or manipulate the playback queue and or audio content represented in the playback queue. For instance a represented audio content may be removed from the playback queue moved to a different position within the playback queue or selected to be played immediately or after any currently playing audio content among other possibilities. A playback queue associated with a playback zone or zone group may be stored in a memory on one or more playback devices in the playback zone or zone group on a playback device that is not in the playback zone or zone group and or some other designated device. Playback of such a playback queue may involve one or more playback devices playing back media items of the queue perhaps in sequential or random order.

The audio content sources region may include graphical representations of selectable audio content sources from which audio content may be retrieved and played by the selected playback zone or zone group. Discussions pertaining to audio content sources may be found in the following section.

As indicated previously one or more playback devices in a zone or zone group may be configured to retrieve for playback audio content e.g. according to a corresponding URI or URL for the audio content from a variety of available audio content sources. In one example audio content may be retrieved by a playback device directly from a corresponding audio content source e.g. a line in connection . In another example audio content may be provided to a playback device over a network via one or more other playback devices or network devices.

Example audio content sources may include a memory of one or more playback devices in a media playback system such as the media playback system of local music libraries on one or more network devices such as a control device a network enabled personal computer or a networked attached storage NAS for example streaming audio services providing audio content via the Internet e.g. the cloud or audio sources connected to the media playback system via a line in input connection on a playback device or network devise among other possibilities.

In some embodiments audio content sources may be regularly added or removed from a media playback system such as the media playback system of . In one example an indexing of audio items may be performed whenever one or more audio content sources are added removed or updated. Indexing of audio items may involve scanning for identifiable audio items in all folders directory shared over a network accessible by playback devices in the media playback system and generating or updating an audio content database containing metadata e.g. title artist album track length among others and other associated information such as a URI or URL for each identifiable audio item found. Other examples for managing and maintaining audio content sources may also be possible.

The above discussions relating to playback devices controller devices playback zone configurations and media content sources provide only some examples of operating environments within which functions and methods described below may be implemented. Other operating environments and configurations of media playback systems playback devices and network devices not explicitly described herein may also be applicable and suitable for implementation of the functions and methods.

Various references are made herein to cloud computing. The term cloud computing is used to refer to services delivered using distributed computing over a network such as the Internet. A non exhaustive list of services delivered via the cloud include electronic mail e.g. GMAIL or HOTMAIL social networking e.g. FACEBOOK LINKEDIN or TWITTER file hosting e.g. DROPBOX and streaming audio e.g. SPOTIFY PANDORA or BEATSAUDIO . Other cloud services are certainly offered as well.

Cloud service providers may offer one or more interfaces for accessing their service over a network. For instance some cloud services may be accessed by visiting a web site using a web browser. Other cloud services are accessed by executing a particular application specific to the cloud service on a computing device. Some cloud services may offer an application programming interface API to facilitate access to the service by a third party web site or application. Cloud services may provide multiple techniques for accessing their service. In many cases a user who has access to a given cloud service can access the service from any computing device that is connected to the network provided that the computing device has a supported interface to the cloud service.

In one instance accessing a cloud service may involve accessing with a first computing device i.e. a client a second computing device or system i.e. a server . Example client devices may include playback device of or control device of among other possible devices. One or more programs or applications i.e. instructions may execute on the server to perform computing operations supported by the cloud service. The client may send various commands to the server to instruct the server to perform the computing tasks supported by the cloud service.

In aggregate the provision of a cloud service many involve multiple instances of computing system . Each instance of computing system may provide the cloud service to one or more users. Cloud service providers may scale the number of instances of computing system involved in providing the cloud service based on user demand.

Within examples data based representations of user accounts may facilitate access to a cloud service. An individual user or a group of users may create a data based user account which may also be referred to simply as an account. An account for a particular user or user group may include data related to the particular user or user group which the user or user group has opted to provide for association with the account. As such the account of a particular user may in a sense be a data based representation of that particular user.

A user may create an account for various applications web sites and or online services for instance. Examples of accounts include e mail accounts social network accounts online financial accounts service provider accounts among other possibilities. Further in some cases a user may have a single account that provides a data based representation of the user for multiple services websites applications etc. For instance a user might opt to use their e mail account or social network account as a common login for various online services and applications which might be provided by different entities. Such a data based representation might be available to any of the instances of the computing systems involved in providing a service so that any of the instances may provide similar access to the service when a particular account is authenticated logged in with the service.

An account may also be used with devices and systems. For instance a user of a device such as a mobile phone tablet computer or laptop computer may associate an account with the computing device itself such that while the account is authenticated on the computing device the account will be authenticated with applications that are provided on the computing device. The user might also associate an account with a media playback system such that while the account is authenticated on the media playback system the media playback system operates according to preferences of the account. Moreover in some cases a user s accounts for various services may be associated with one another. For instance a user s account for a media playback system may be associated with the user s accounts for one or more streaming music services such that when a user s account for a media playback system is logged in to the media playback system the media playback system has access to the one or more streaming music services that are associated with the user s account for the media playback system.

Using the cloud media playback systems and may respectively access various cloud services. For instance media playback systems and may access one or more streaming audio services . As noted above streaming audio services may provide audio content to media playback systems. Several example streaming audio services that are currently available include SPOTIFY PANDORA BEATSAUDIO RDIO GOOGLE PLAY MUSIC ALL ACCESS SONY MUSIC UNLIMITED ITUNES RADIO XBOX MUSIC and TUNEIN RADIO . Other streaming audio services certainly exist and other streaming audio services may be offered in the future.

Media playback systems and may also respectively access one or more social network services . Social network services are often characterized at least in part by various links between users of the service or perhaps between accounts of the service . Such links are referred to by different names such as friends connections followers or favorites among other examples. Users may create such links for various reasons. For instance in some cases the users may have a relationship outside of the social network e.g. co workers relatives or college friends . In other cases two users may have similar interests e.g. fans of a particular band or genre or belong to a certain group and then form a link in the social network because they share these similar interests.

A cloud service provider may provide a cloud queue service . The cloud queue service may maintain or have access to one or more playback queues cloud queues . In some instances the cloud queue service may maintain playback queues for media playback systems registered with the cloud queue service . Such playback queues may be referred to as cloud queues. In other instances the cloud queue service may maintain multiple cloud queues for a particular media playback system perhaps with one particular cloud queue active i.e. selected at any instant. In further instances the cloud queue service may maintain a cloud queue that multiple media playback systems may access. One or more computing systems may be used to provide the cloud queue service and to maintain the cloud queue s in data storage.

Various devices may access the cloud queue. Accessing the cloud queue may involve any of a variety of operations with respect to the cloud queue. For instance some devices may access the cloud queue to modify e.g. add remove or re order media items in a playback queue maintained by cloud queue service . Such devices may include control devices such as control device or any suitable device having a network interface to communicate with the cloud queue service . As another example a media playback system such as media playback systems and may access the cloud queue to play back the cloud queue.

Devices of a media playback system may provide control inputs that cause accessing of the queue. For instance a control device of a media playback system e.g. control device may provide an interface e.g. controller interface that includes various controls. The control device may detect input at such controls and responsively perform operations with respect to the cloud queue. Alternatively a playback device of a media playback system may include various controls e.g. buttons that are operable to generate input data that requests various operations with respect to a cloud queue.

As noted above access to a cloud queue may be controlled using various techniques. Some example techniques may involve controlling access to a cloud queue based on the identity of the entity that is accessing the cloud queue. Other example techniques may involve controlling access to a cloud queue based on a configuration or settings of the cloud queue itself.

Playback queue may be maintained for one or more media playback systems by a cloud queue service such as cloud queue service and be referred to as a cloud queue. For example an instance of computing system of which may provide cloud queue service may maintain playback queue for media playback system . In such an example playback device and or playback device may maintain a local copy of playback queue perhaps in a memory such as memory of . Alternately playback queue may be maintained on another computing system such as an instance of control device of . Such a local copy may provide a cached instance of a cloud queue such that devices of the media playback system may access the local copy and avoid transmission delays that may be involved in accessing the cloud queue among other possible benefits.

The above discussions relating to playback devices controller devices playback zone configurations media content sources and cloud computing provide only some examples of operating environments within which functions and methods described below may be implemented. Other operating environments and configurations of media playback systems playback devices and network devices not explicitly described herein may also be applicable and suitable for implementation of the functions and methods.

Methods and shown in respectively present embodiments of methods that can be implemented within an operating environment including for example the media playback system of one or more of the playback device of one or more of the control device of or one or more of the computing system of . Further operations illustrated by way of example as being performed by a media playback system can be performed by any suitable device such as a playback device or a control device of a media playback system. Methods and may include one or more operations functions or actions as illustrated by one or more of blocks shown in respectively. Although the blocks are illustrated in sequential order these blocks may also be performed in parallel and or in a different order than those described herein. Also the various blocks may be combined into fewer blocks divided into additional blocks and or removed based upon the desired implementation.

In addition for the methods and other processes disclosed herein the flowcharts show functionality and operation of one possible implementation of present embodiments. In this regard each block may represent a module a segment or a portion of program code which includes one or more instructions executable by a processor for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. The program code may be stored on any type of computer readable medium for example such as a storage device including a disk or hard drive. The computer readable medium may include non transitory computer readable medium for example such as computer readable media that stores data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and Random Access Memory RAM . The computer readable medium may also include non transitory media such as secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable media may also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. The computer readable medium may be considered a computer readable storage medium for example or a tangible storage device. In addition for the methods and other processes disclosed herein each block may represent circuitry that is wired to perform the specific logical functions in the process.

As discussed above embodiments described herein may involve accessing a cloud queue based on an authorization token. The authorization token may be used to control access to the cloud queue based on which entity e.g. a particular media playback system or device is attempting to access the cloud queue. For instance a device of a media playback system may access a cloud queue. Accessing a cloud queue may involve displaying the cloud queue playback of the cloud queue or manipulation of the cloud queue among other examples. illustrates an example method to access a queue by way of an authorization token.

At block of method the method involves obtaining an authorization token corresponding to a queue. For instance a media playback system such as media playback system of or one of media playback systems and of may obtain an authorization token corresponding to a particular queue of media items. In some cases a particular device of a media playback system such as a playback device e.g. playback device of or a control device e.g. control device of may obtain the authorization token. The authorization may be obtained via a network interface over one or more networks such as a wide area network e.g. the Internet .

The particular queue may be stored at a remote server e.g. a server involved in a providing a cloud queue service and be referred to as a cloud queue. A remote server is considered to be separated from entities that might access the queue by one or more networks including a wide area network. For instance referring to media playback system may obtain an authorization token from a server of cloud queue service by way of one or more networks that communicatively couple the media playback system and the remote server. In some cases a media playback system may obtain an authorization token corresponding to a particular queue from a remote server at which the particular queue is stored or maintained. Alternatively a media playback may obtain an authorization token corresponding to a particular queue from another remote server perhaps a remote server that is communicatively coupled to the remote server at which the particular queue is stored or maintained.

As noted above the obtained authorization token may correspond to a particular queue of media items. As such the authorization token may be used to manage access to the particular queue. For instance a given cloud queue service may maintain or have access to one or more cloud queues each containing zero or more media items. In such a case an obtained authorization token may correspond to a particular cloud queue of the one or more cloud queues. An authorization token may be used by a remote server to manage access to the particular cloud queue. Alternatively an obtained authorization token may correspond to a particular group of queues. Such a group could include cloud queues that are maintained by the cloud queue service on behalf of a particular media playback system or cloud queues that are maintained by the cloud queue service on behalf of a particular user account among other examples.

In some implementations the authorization token may authorize or permit an entity to perform certain operations with respect to a particular queue such as accessing the particular queue. The entity may bear or provide the authorization token when attempting to perform one of the permitted operations and given the authorization token s validity be allowed to perform the operation.

An authorization token may be considered to be associated with certain access rights that permit different operations. In some implementations entities attempting to perform certain operations with respect to the queue may be prohibited from performing that operation unless the entity has been authorized by way of the authentication token. For instance an entity that bears or provides the authorization token may be permitted to perform operations that are within a certain level or set of access rights. Different access rights may be granted to different entities by way of the authorization token. For instance a first entity e.g. a media playback system or device may obtain a first authorization token associated with first access rights and a second entity may obtain a second authorization token associated with second access rights that are different from the first access rights.

As one example the access rights associated with a given authorization token may include display rights that permit displaying the queue and as such an entity that has obtained the given authorization token may be permitted to perform operations involved in display of the queue. Display of the queue may involve display of indications of media items associated with the queue perhaps by a user interface of a control device of in a playback queue region of a controller interface as shown in . By way of example operations involved in display of the queue may involve sending to a remote server a request for an indication of at least one media item of the queue and perhaps receiving the requested indication and displaying the at least one indicated media item.

As another example the access rights associated with a given authorization token may include queue rights that permit manipulation of the particular queue to which the authorization token corresponds. For instance an entity that has obtained an authorization token that is associated with queue rights may be permitted to add media items to the queue remove media items from the queue or re order media items within the queue among other examples. In some embodiments an entity e.g. a media playback system or a device of such a system may send a request to manipulate the queue to a remote entity e.g. a server that is maintaining the queue.

As a further example the access rights associated with a given authorization token may include playback rights that permit playback of the media items of the particular queue. For example an entity that has obtain an authorization token that is associated with queue rights may be permitted to request an indication of media items from the queue and then play back those media items. As noted above a device may maintain a local copy of a cloud queue. Playback of a cloud queue may involve requesting an indication of at least one media item from the cloud queue including the indicated media items in the local copy and playing back the media items of the local copy of the cloud queue.

In one example a given authorization token may authenticate one or more particular devices of a media playback system such as one or more instances of playback device of . Obtaining such an authorization token may involve sending to a remote server a request for an authorization token that authenticates one or more particular devices of a media playback system to play back media items of the queue. After sending the request the media playback system may receive the requested authorization token. In some cases two or more devices may be joined into a group that can perform some joint operations such as synchronous playback. In such cases the obtained authorization token might authenticate the two or more devices to playback media items of the queue in synchrony.

As noted above in some embodiments a media playback system might be associated with one or more user accounts. Such an association may be formed when a user account logs into the media playback system perhaps by way of an instance of control device of . In some cases the authorization token might authenticate one or more particular user accounts to access a cloud queue at a remote server. By authenticating a user account with an authorization token any media playback system to which the user account is logged in may be authenticated to access the queue. In such an instance obtaining the authorization token might involve a media playback system sending to the remote server a request for an authorization token that authenticates a particular account to access the queue at the remote server. If the particular user account is authorized the remote server might grant the request and send the requested authorization token. The media playback system may then receive the requested authorization token. In some cases the received authorization token authenticates a control device registered with the particular account to access the queue at the remote server. The control device may be a device that provides a controller interface which facilitates access to the cloud queue and accordingly access to the cloud queue may be performed by way of the control device .

In some cases a control device of a media playback system may obtain an authorization token that corresponds to a particular queue perhaps in response to receiving input data indicating a request to access the particular queue. The controller may cause a graphical interface to display a controller interface that includes controls or other interface elements corresponding to the access associated with the obtained authorization token. For instance if the authorization token permits displaying a cloud queue the controller might display a controller interface having a playback queue region that shows the cloud queue such as an instance of playback queue region shown in . Further if the authorization token does not permit playback of the cloud queue the controller interface might not include a playback control region e.g. playback control region of or might indicate that the playback control region is disabled or unavailable for the cloud queue.

After obtaining the authorization token the control device may send the authorization token to one or more additional devices of the media playback system and the additional devices may access the queue using the authorization token. In one example a control device of a media playback system may send a request for an authorization token that authenticates access to the queue at the remote server. Thereafter the control device may receive the requested authorization token. The control device may then send the received authorization token to one or more playback devices of the media playback system. As noted above any of the entities having the authorization token may use the authorization token to access the queue as entities providing the authorization token to the remote server may be authenticated to access the queue.

Alternatively a playback device of a media playback system may obtain an authorization token that corresponds to a particular queue perhaps in response to receiving a request to play back or otherwise access the particular queue. After obtaining the authorization token the playback device may distribute the authorization token to one or more additional devices of the media playback system such that the additional devices may access the queue using the authorization token. In one example a given playback device of a media playback system may send a request for an authorization token that authenticates access to the queue at the remote server. Thereafter the given playback device may receive the requested authorization token. The control device may then send the received authorization token to one or more additional playback devices of the media playback system. In one implementation the one or more additional playback devices may be playback devices with which the given playback device is grouped. All of the playback devices having the authorization token may access the queue as entities providing the authorization token to the remote server may be authenticated to access the queue.

Within examples the obtained authorization token may take various forms. For instance the obtained authorization token may include a hypertext transfer protocol header that indicates an authorization code that authenticates certain operations with respect to a cloud queue. In such cases obtaining the authorization token may involve receiving data indicating a hypertext transfer protocol header that indicates an authorization code. The authorization code indicated in the header may authenticate access rights to queue of media items at the remote server e.g. a cloud queue . Alternatively a file i.e. non transitory data may indicate the authorization token.

Within examples an authorization token may grant access to a queue for a limited duration. For instance an authorization token may grant access rights to a queue for the duration of a session. In such an embodiment obtaining the authorization token may involve sending i an indication of a given session of the media playback system to the remote server and ii a request for an authentication token that authenticates the media playback system to access the queue at the remote server for the duration of the given session. Further obtaining the authorization token may involve the media playback system receiving the requested authorization token that authenticates the media playback system to access the queue at the remote server for the duration of the given session.

In some cases obtaining an authorization token may involve an entity sending one or more credentials e.g. a user name and password to the remote server. The remote server may determine whether the credentials authorize the entity to obtain an authorization token and if so send the requested authorization token to the entity. In some cases the credential may include one or more credentials of a user account such as any of the user accounts noted above.

After obtaining the authorization token a device e.g. a playback device or a control device may store the authorization token in a data storage such as memory of playback device or memory of control device . The device may then provide an indication of the stored authorization token to a remote server when accessing the cloud queue corresponding to the authorization token.

At block the method involves sending the obtained authorization token and a request for access to the cloud queue. For instance the media playback system may send to the remote server the obtained authorization token and a request for access to one or more media items of the particular cloud queue. The media playback system may send the token and request via a network interface over one or more networks including a wide area network.

As noted above an entity e.g. a media playback system or a device thereof may bear or provide the authorization token when attempting to perform one of the permitted operations and given the authorization token s validity be allowed to perform the operation. Providing the authorization token may involve sending the authorization token or an indication of the authorization token to a remote server which might be a remote server that is maintaining the cloud queue or perhaps a different remote server that is communicatively coupled to the remote server that is maintaining the cloud queue.

As noted above in some cases the obtained authorization token may permit displaying the queue. In some examples sending the request for access may involve sending a request for an indication of one or more media items for display. In some implementations the one or more media items may include all of the media items in a cloud queue. In other implementations the one or more media items may include a subset of the media items of the cloud queue. The subset might include a currently playing media item and perhaps one or more media items that are proximate to the currently playing media item within the queue.

Also as noted above the obtained authorization token may permit playback of the queue. In such examples sending the request for access may involve sending a request for an indication of one or more media items for playback.

In further examples the obtained authorization token may permit manipulation of the queue e.g. adding items to the queue removing items from the queue or re ordering items within the queue . With such an authorization token sending the request for access may involve sending a request to manipulate the queue. A control device of a media playback system might send such a request based on receiving input data that indicates such manipulation.

At block the method involves receiving an indication that the media playback system may access the queue. For instance the media playback system may receive from the remote server an indication that the media playback system may access the one or more media items of the particular queue for which access was previously requested. A device of the media playback system may receive the indication via a network interface over one or more networks.

Receiving an indication that the media playback system may access the queue may involve receiving data indicating the one or more media items of the particular queue. As noted above in some cases the obtained authorization token may include display rights that permit displaying the queue. In such a case the media playback system may request an indication of one or more media items from the queue for display. Thereafter the media playback system may receive data indicating the one or more media items of the particular queue. In some cases the method may further involve displaying respective indication of the one or more media items. For instance a control device of a media playback system may cause a graphical interface to display indications of the one or more media items. The indications may be displayed in a playback queue region of a controller interface such as playback queue region of controller interface .

In other cases receiving an indication that the media playback system may access the queue may involve receiving data indicating i the one or more media items of the particular queue and ii respective sources of the one or more media items. As noted above in some instances the obtained authorization token may include queue rights that permit manipulating the queue. Manipulation of the queue may involve adding removing or re ordering media items of the queue and may also include changing the playback order of the queue e.g. by way of a skip forward or skip backward command . In such a case the media playback system may send a request to manipulate the queue to the remote server. Thereafter the media playback system may receive an indication of the queue perhaps showing the queue after the requested manipulation. For instance the media playback system may send to a remote server a request to add one or more media items to a particular queue. The remote server may add the one or more media items and send to the media playback system receiving data indicating i the one or more media items of the particular queue and ii respective sources of the one or more media items. In some embodiments the media playback system may add the indicated one or more media items to a local queue of the media playback system.

In still other cases receiving the indication that the media playback system may access the one or more media items may involve the media playback system receiving data indicating i the one or more media items of the particular queue and ii respective sources of the one or more media items. As noted above in some instances the obtained authorization token may include playback rights that permit playback of media items of the particular queue. In such a case the media playback system may request an indication of at least one media item from the queue for playback perhaps in response to receiving input data indicating a request to playback the queue. Thereafter the media playback system may receive data indicating i the one or more media items of the particular queue and ii respective sources of the one or more media items. In some instances the media playback system may obtain at least one of the one or more media items from the respective sources perhaps to playback the at least one media item.

Receiving data indicating respective sources of the one or more media items may involve receiving respective identifiers that may be used to obtain the media items. For instance as noted above in some examples each media item in the queue of media items is assigned a unique identifier. The unique identifier may be a uniform resource identifier URI a uniform resource locator URL or some other identifier that may be used by a device to find and or retrieve the audio item from a local audio content source or a networked audio content source possibly for playback by the entity.

In some cases the method may also involve receiving an indication that the obtained authorization token has expired such that access to the queue of media items at the remote server is withdrawn from the media playback system. As noted above in some cases the authorization token may grant access to a particular queue for the duration of a given session. Accordingly the authorization token may expire based on the occurrence of a condition. For instance the authorization token may expire after a given duration of time after a threshold number of accesses have occurred after the queue has been played back for a threshold duration of time or after a threshold number of media items from the queue have been played back among other examples. In some cases the remote server may determine that the authorization token has expired perhaps by detecting one of the above conditions. The remote server may then send an indication that the obtained authorization token has expired which may the media playback system may receive.

Under certain conditions an authorization token may be renewed rather than expiring. For instance the remote server may determine that playback of the particular queue has satisfied at least one condition for renewal and based on such a determination renew the authorization token. Example conditions for renewal might be that playback of the particular queue exceeded a threshold duration or that playback of the particular queue exceeded a threshold proportion of a given session e.g. that a threshold number of media items have been played back . In some cases a media playback system may send to the remote server a request to renew the received authorization token based on playback by the media playback system of the media items of the queue during the given session. The media playback system may send playback data indicating playback of the particular queue during the session from which the remote queue may determine that playback of the particular queue has satisfied at least one condition for renewal. Given that the media playback system is eligible for a renewed authorization token the media playback system may receive a renewed authorization token which authenticates the media playback system to access the queue at the remote server for a second duration of the given session or for some other suitable duration such as a lesser duration.

As noted above embodiments described herein may involve controlling and or accessing a cloud queue based on an authorization token. illustrates an example method by which a remote server may control access by various media playback systems to a cloud queue.

At block of the method involves receiving an authorization token and a request for access to a particular queue. For instance a computing system e.g. a remote server might receive via a network interface an authorization token associated with a particular media playback system and ii a request for access by the media playback system to a queue of media items that is remote from the media playback system perhaps maintained by the computing system .

The computing server may be operated by various entities perhaps depending on which entity is assigned to control access to the cloud queue. In one example a remote server of cloud queue server may receive the authorization token and request for access from media playback system over one or more networks that communicatively couple the systems. In another example a remote server of streaming audio service may receive the authorization token and request for access from media playback system over one or more networks that communicatively couple the systems. In another case the server might be operated by a cloud hosting provider on behalf of an entity that is controlling access to a cloud queue. The received authorization token may take the form of any of the example authorization tokens provided above as well as any other suitable authorization token.

As noted above an entity may provide an authorization token to a computing system that is maintaining a cloud queue when attempting to perform an operation with respect to the queue. Given that the authorization token indicates that the entity is authorized to perform the operation and that the authorization token is valid the computing system may allow the operation to be performed and may perform the operation. In some cases the entity may provide the authorization token and the request for access in the same message. Alternatively the entity may provide the authorization token and the request for access in the separate messages.

As noted above accessing a cloud queue may involve displaying the cloud queue playback of the cloud queue or manipulation of the cloud queue among other examples. Accordingly in some cases receiving the request for access may involve receiving a request for an indication of one or more media items for display. In other cases receiving the request for access may involve receiving a request for an indication of one or more media items for playback. In further examples the received authorization token may permit manipulation of the queue e.g. adding items to the queue removing items from the queue or re ordering items within the queue . With such an authorization token receiving the request for access may involve receiving a request to manipulate the queue.

The data correlating authorization tokens to entities and operations may be updated based on certain conditions. For instance the data may be updated upon request by authorized devices e.g. devices bearing authorization tokens that authenticate the device to update the data . Alternatively the data may be updated as part of a registration procedure. For instance the data may be updated when new media playback systems or devices are registered e.g. associated with a particular user account . As another example the data may be updated when new content sources such as streaming audio services are registered.

As noted above an authorization token may grant access to a queue for a limited duration. For instance the received authorization may grant access to a queue for a duration of a given session. Accordingly in some cases the request for access to the queue may include a request for access to the queue for a duration of the given session e.g. for the remainder of the session .

At block the method involves determining the access to the queue that the authorization token authenticates. For instance a computing system may maintain or have access to data indicating the access that each granted authorization token provides. The computing system may determine the access to the queue that the received authorization token provides based on such data. The data may take the form of a database.

Determining the access to the queue that the authorization token authenticates involves identifying the cloud queue to which the authorization token provides access. As noted above each authorization token may correspond to one or more particular queues. The computing system may maintain or have access to data linking each authorization token to one or more particular queues which the computing system may refer to in identifying the cloud queue s to which the authorization token provides access.

In some embodiments determining the access to the queue that the authorization token authenticates involves determining one or more operations that the authorization token authenticates an entity to perform. Access to a cloud queue may take the form of a defined set of operations that can be performed with respect to a cloud queue. As noted above each operation may involve a request sent from an entity such as a media playback system to a remote server which the remote server may carry out given that the request is authorized. In some cases the operations may be defined in an application programming interface API or other suitable definition.

The operations may be divided into different categories based on the type of access. For instance operations involved in display such as requesting media items from a cloud queue for display may be categorized as display operations. As another example operations involved in queue manipulation such as adding media items to the queue removing media items from the queue or re ordering media items within the queue may be categorized as manipulation operations. Another category of operations might be playback operations which may include operations involved in playback of the queue. In some cases such categories might be used in determining the access to the queue that the authorization token authenticates. For instance the computing system may determine which categories of operations that the authorization token authenticates.

In some embodiments the operations may be divided into two or more access levels that are different from one another. For instance the operations may be divided into full access which includes the full set of operations and partial access which includes a subset of operations. As another example each level may include certain categories of operations. For example a first level may include the manipulation and display categories while another level includes the playback and display categories. In such embodiments a given authorization token may authenticate an entity to perform operations within a given level.

As noted above in some examples an authorization token may have a duration of validity. For instance an authorization token may be valid for the duration of a given session. In such cases determining the access to the queue that the authorization token authenticates may involve determining whether the authorization token is still valid or whether the token has expired. Expiration of an authorization token may result in a withdrawal of access to the queue. For example an expired authorization token might not provide any access to the queue or may provide limited access as compared to when the token was valid. For instance a given token may authorize playback and display operations while valid and after expiration may authorize only display operations or no operations at all.

At block the method involves providing the access that the authorization token authenticates. Providing the access that the authorization token indicates may involve carrying out the received request for access by the media playback system given that the authorization token authorizes the request. For instance the computing system may provide access to media items of the queue by performing operations involved in display playback or manipulation of the queue according to the type of operation indicated in the request for access.

In some cases the authorization token might be expired. In such cases providing the media playback system the access that the authorization token authorizes may include sending the media playback system an indication that the authorization token has expired such that access to the queue of media items at the remote server is withdrawn or otherwise restricted. Based on such a message the media playback system may restrict certain operations with respect to the queue. For instance a control device of the media playback system may cause a graphical interface to display an indication that access to the cloud queue is withdrawn and may perhaps disable certain controls that require the withdrawn access.

In some cases the method may further involve providing an entity e.g. a media playback system or device an authorization token. The computing system might provide an authorization token prior to providing access to the queue perhaps at the beginning of a session. In one example the computing system may receive a request for an authorization token that authenticates an entity e.g. the entity sending the request which might be a device of a media playback system to access a particular queue of media items or perhaps a group of particular queues . The computing system may also receive one or more credentials such as a user name and password of an account which might be used to determine that the requesting entity is authorized to be provided the requested authorization token. Upon determining that the request is authorized the computing system may send the requested authorization token to the entity. In other words the computing device may send the authorization token and the access requested.

In some embodiments the computing system may receive an indication of a given session and a request for an authorization token that authenticates an entity for the duration of the given session. The computing system may then send such an authorization token to the entity perhaps based on the one or more credentials provided by the entity. The computing system may then provide the entity access to the queue until the authorization token expires.

As noted above in some examples authorization tokens may be renewed after expiration perhaps based on one or more conditions. For instance the computing system may receive a request to renew the received authorization token. The computing system may also receive playback history data which the computing system may use to determine whether the authorization token is renewable. For instance the playback history data may indicate playback history of the media items of the queue during the given session and based on the received playback history the computing system may determine that playback of the media items of the queue during the given session exceeds a threshold for renewal of the authorization token. Based on such a condition the computing system may send the entity a renewed authorization token that authenticates the media playback system to access the queue at the remote server for additional time such as a second duration of the given session.

As noted above embodiments described herein may involve providing varying levels of access to a cloud queue. illustrates an example method to provide varying levels of access to two or more entities.

At block of method the method involves receiving one or more requests for access to a queue of media items. For instance a computing system may receive a request from a first media playback system for access to a queue of media items. The computing system may also receive a request from a second media playback system for access to the queue of media items. The computing system may receive the requests over one or more networks via a network interface. As one example a remote server of a cloud service such as cloud queue service may receive respective requests for access to a cloud queue from media playback system and media playback .

In some embodiments each request for access may include a request to perform one or more operations with respect to a cloud queue. The operations may include any of the example types of operations noted above in connection with sending or receiving a request for access. For instance the requests for access may include requests to perform operations involved in the display of the cloud queue playback of the cloud queue or manipulation of the cloud queue among other examples.

In some embodiments the request for access may include a mechanism by which the computing system may authenticate access to the queue. For instance each request for access may include an authorization token. Alternatively each request for access may include one or more credentials.

At block the method involves granting access to the queue. For example the computing system may grant a first type of access to the first media playback system and may grant a second type of access to the second media playback system. As noted above access to a cloud queue may include a defined set of operations that can be performed with respect to a cloud queue. Granting access may involve authorizing the media playback system to perform certain operations with respect to the queue. As noted above a media playback system may perform queue operations by sending requests for such operations via a network interface to a computing system that maintains or has access to the cloud queue that the media playback system is attempting to access.

Each type of access may provide a different level of access. For instance the second type of access may provide full access which may include authorization to perform the full set of operations with respect to the cloud queue. The first type of access may then provide partial access which may include authorization to perform a subset of the operations. Alternatively the first type of access and the second type of access may authorize an entity to perform a first subset of operations and a second subset of operations respectively. The first and second subset of operations may include some of the same operations but be different from one another in that the respective sets do not include all of the same operations.

As noted above the operations may be divided into different categories. For instance operations involved in display such as requesting media items from a cloud queue for display may be categorized as display operations. As another example operations involved in queue manipulation such as adding media items to the queue removing media items from the queue or re ordering media items within the queue may be categorized as manipulation operations. Another category of operations might be playback operations which may include operations involved in playback of the queue. In some cases each type of access may include authorization to perform certain categories of operations. For example the second type of access may be authorized to perform operations in the manipulation and display categories while the first type of access may be authorized to perform operations in the playback and display categories.

In some cases the types of access may be differentiated by their respective authorization or lack thereof to control which media item in the cloud queue is currently playing and or whether the media item in the cloud queue is playing or paused. A media playback system might control which media item in the cloud queue is currently playing by sending requests that correspond to various transport controls. For instance a media playback system may send to the remote server a request to play pause skip to the next media item in the queue skip to the previous media item in the queue jump to a particular media item or position in the queue among other examples. In some embodiments a media playback granted the second type of access may be authorized to perform the full set of transport functions while a media playback system granted the first type of access may be authorized to perform a subset of transport functions. For instance the first type of access may authorize play and pause but perhaps not transport functions that change the currently playing media item e.g. skip or jump .

In some cases a playhead indicator may indicate the currently playing media item of the queue perhaps by reference to a particular position in the queue. For instance referring back to song E might be the currently playing media item and the playhead indicator may indicate song E by reference to position . The computing system may maintain or have access to data indicating the playhead. Playback of the queue may occur at the media item indicated by the playhead. Operations that affect the currently playing media item might change the position indicated by the playhead which may in turn affect which media item is currently playing back.

As noted above a media playback system may play back a cloud queue perhaps by way of one or more playback devices. Further two or more media playback systems may play back a cloud queue in synchrony such that the media playback systems provide a joint listening experience. In some examples the second type of access might include authorization to control which media item in the cloud queue is currently playing. Accordingly a media playback system that is granted the second type of access may request to change the currently playing media item of the cloud queue and thereby change the currently playing media item for other media playback systems that are currently playing back the cloud queue.

Accordingly a media playback system that is authorized to change the currently playing media item of the cloud queue may be referred to as a DJ media playback system. Media playback systems that are granted the first type of access might not be authorized to change the currently playing media item and accordingly may be referred to as listeners. In some playback modes the DJ media playback system may control which media items of the cloud queue are played back by controlling which media item is currently playing. Media playback systems that are listeners may follow the playback order set by the DJ media playback system.

Remote server may grant a first type of access to media playback systems and . The first type of access may permit playback of cloud queue perhaps as directed by media playback system the DJ . For example media playback system may set the current media item of queue to Song C in position as shown perhaps by changing or setting the position of a playhead. Media playback system and or media playback system may access queue according to the first type of access. As noted above this may involve playing back queue as directed by media playback system . Changes made to queue or to the currently playing media item by media playback system may propagate via remote server to media playback systems and . For instance media playback system may send a request to change a playhead from a first position in queue to a second position in queue e.g. to skip forward to the next media item in the queue . The remote server may receive the request determine that the access granted to media playback system authorizes the system to perform the requested action and then carry out the request. Remote server may cause respective playback devices of media playback systems and to playback a media item corresponding to the second position perhaps by sending an indication of the new currently playing media item to media playback systems and .

The method may further involve determining whether the requesting entity is authorized to access the queue. For instance the computing system may determine whether a received authorization token or credential authorizes an entity to be granted the access requested by the entity. The computing system may grant access or might not grant access based on such a determination.

The method may further involve determining which media playback system is granted which type of access. As noted above in some cases the second type of access may authorize more operations with respect to the queue e.g. access to the full set of operations that can be performed than the first type of access. Alternatively the second type of access may authorize operations that involve a greater amount of control with respect to the queue than the first type of access e.g. authorization to perform manipulation operations as compared to playback and or display operations . Accordingly some embodiments may limit which media playback system s are granted such access.

In some embodiments each type of access might be limited to a limited number of media playback systems. For instance the second type of access may be limited to one media playback system. In such a case when receiving a request to grant a media playback system a particular type of access the computing system may determine whether granting that type of access to the media playback system would exceed a threshold number of media playback systems. If so the computing system may deny the request to grant the particular type of access to the media playback system and perhaps send an indication of the denial to the requesting media playback system.

In some cases the computing system may cycle the types of access among the media playback systems that are accessing a particular cloud queue. Under such an example each media playback system might be granted the second type of access for a limited duration of time and be granted the second type of access at other times. For instance referring back to the DJ example of media playback systems and may alternate acting as the DJ every thirty minutes or some other suitable duration . In operation the computing system might detect that a first media playback system has been granted a second type of access for a threshold duration of time and based on such a detection grant a second media playback system the second type of access and grant the first media playback system the first type of access.

In some cases the type of access granted to each media playback system may be based on a user account that is associated with the respective media playback system. In such an embodiment any media playback system to which the user account is logged in or otherwise associated might be granted the access that is granted to the user account. A particular user account may be associated with multiple media playback systems such that the multiple media playback systems may have the access granted to the user account.

In some embodiments the computing system may grant media playback systems or user accounts that are accessing a particular cloud queue for the first time a particular type of access. For instance upon the first instance of granting an entity access to a particular cloud queue the computing system may grant the entity the second type of access e.g. full access for a limited duration e.g. a limited duration of absolute time or a limited duration of playback time . For example in operations the computing system might receive a request from a third media playback system for access to the queue determine that the request is a first instance of a request from the third media playback system and based on such a determination grant the third media playback system the second type of access e.g. full access .

Within examples some types of access may permit an entity to request that another entity be granted a particular type of access. For example a media playback system having the second type of access might be authorized to grant another media playback system perhaps having the first type of access the second type of access. In operation the computing system might receive a request from the second media playback system to grant a particular type of access to a particular media playback system determine that the type of access granted to the second media playback system authorizes the second media playback system to grant the particular type of access and based on such a determination grant the second type of access to the particular media playback system.

In some cases the type of access granted to an entity may be based on which entity created the cloud queue. For instance a device associated with a particular user account may send a request to establish a cloud queue to the computing system. The computing system may carry out the request by establishing the cloud queue and grant the user account the second type of access on the basis of having established the cloud queue. Other user accounts that access the cloud queue may be granted the second type of access. The types of access granted to each entity may change perhaps based on certain conditions as noted above.

At block the method involves providing an indication of access. The computing system may provide an indication that a first media playback system may access the queue as authorized by the first type of access and may provide an indication that a second media playback system may access the queue as authorized by a second type of access.

In some cases the computing system may indicate that a media playback system may access the queue as authorized by a particular type of access by sending a message indicating that the media playback system has been granted the particular type of access. For instance the computing system may send respective messages over one or more networks to each media playback system. After receiving the messages the computing systems may send requests to access the queue according to the access that they have been granted.

In other cases the computing system may indicate that a media playback system may access the queue as authorized by a particular type of access by sending an indication of a request that the computing system carried out at request of the media playback system. For instance the computing system may receive from a first media playback system a request to playback the queue determine that the first type of access granted to the first media playback system authorizes the first media playback system to playback the queue and send to the first media playback system data indicating one or more media items of the queue. In some cases the computing system may also send data indicating respective sources of the one or more media items from which the one or more media items are playable by the first media playback system.

As noted above embodiments described herein may involve providing varying levels of access to a cloud queue. illustrates an example method to access a cloud queue using one or more varying levels of access.

At block of method the method involves sending a request for access to a queue of media items. A device of a media playback system e.g. a control device or a playback device may request to access a cloud queue of media items. For instance the device may send a request to playback display or manipulate media items of the queue to a computing system that maintains or has access to a cloud queue. Many examples of access to a queue are provided herein and other examples are possible as well. For instance the request for access may include an authorization token.

At block the method involves receiving an indication of access to the queue. For instance the device may receive an indication that the media playback system or the device may access the queue as authorized by a particular type of access e.g. based on a user account a particular device or type of device or an authorization token among other examples . As noted above multiple types of access to a cloud queue are possible. Each type of access may permit a different set of operations with respect to the queue. In some cases the device may receive a message indicating that the media playback system has been granted the particular type of access. Alternatively the device may receive an indication of a request that the computing system carried out on behalf of the media playback system. Other examples are possible as well.

At block the method involves receiving an indication of one or more media items of the queue. For instance a device may request an indication of one or more media items for display or playback and receive the requested indication. Alternatively the device may request a modification to the queue and receive an indication of the media items within the queue after the modification.

As noted above in some cases access to a queue may involve playback of a queue. Further in some cases a media playback system may playback a cloud queue based on a playhead that indicates a current media items of the queue. During playback a device e.g. a playback device may receive one or more indications of respective positions of a playhead and initiate playback of the queue in synchrony with the playhead. As noted above multiple media playback systems may respectively play back the queue in synchrony with the playhead so as to facilitate a joint listening experience among the media playback systems.

As noted above embodiments described herein may involve controlling access to a cloud queue based on various settings or properties of the cloud queue. An example computing system may maintain or have access to multiple cloud queues each with respective properties that control access by devices to the respective cloud queue. illustrates an example method that involves a cloud queue having two or more access statuses with each access status indicating a different set of queue operations that are permitted to be performed with respect to the queue.

At block of method the method involves receiving a request to establish a queue of media items. For example a computing system may receive from a media playback system a request to establish a cloud queue of media items. The computing system may establish the cloud queue at the computing system itself or may cause the cloud queue to be established at another computing system to which the computing system is communicatively coupled.

The established cloud queue may contain zero or more media items. In some cases the computing system may receive an indication of one or more media items to insert into the established cloud queue. Alternatively the cloud queue may be configured to include one or more media items but not yet include any media items.

The established cloud queue may be identified by a unique identifier such as a uniform resource identifier to distinguish the established cloud queue from other cloud queues that the computing system may maintain or have access to. Operations performed with respect to the cloud queue may refer to the cloud queue by reference to the unique identifier.

After cloud queue is established media playback systems may access cloud queue . Computing devices such as playback devices and control devices of a media playback system as well as possibly other computing devices may access the cloud queue by way of various operations. Many examples of operations that may be performed with respect to a cloud queue are disclosed herein and other examples are possible as well. The media playback systems that may access the cloud queue may include those media playback systems that have been granted access. As noted above media playback system may be granted access because media playback system established cloud queue . Accessing the queue may involve establishing a local queue that is synchronized with all or part of the cloud queue .

At block the method involves assigning a first access status to the queue. For instance the computing system may assign a first access status to a cloud queue. An access status may indicate a set of queue operations that certain entities are permitted to perform with respect to a queue.

In some cases the first access status might be an initial access status that is generally assigned to newly established cloud queues. Alternatively the access status might include an access status requested for the newly established cloud queue. Referring back to remote server may assign a first access status to cloud queue .

A computing system may control access to a cloud queue by way of the currently assigned access status of the cloud queue. For instance a first access status may indicate that at least one media playback system is authorized to perform a first set of queue operations with respect to the queue. In other words entities that are authorized to access a cloud queue perhaps by way of a credential or authorization token may be authorized to perform a first set of queue operations with respect to the queue given that the queue is assigned the first access status.

A cloud queue may have a finite set of possible access statuses. In some examples the set of access statuses may include a first access status and a second access status. The first access status and the second access status may respectively indicate that media playback systems are authorized to perform a first set of operations and a second set of operations. While the first set of operations and the second set of operations may include some of the same operations the sets are different from one another in that they do not include the same set of operations.

In some cases the first set of queue operations might include playback of the cloud queue and the second set of operations might not include playback . In operation a media playback system may initiate playback of the cloud queue. For instance media playback system of may initiate playback of cloud queue on one or more playback devices of media playback system . Remote server may receive from media playback system a request for an indication of one or more media items from queue for playback. Such a request may be used to synchronize local queue with cloud queue . Remote server may determine that the queue is assigned the first access status such that media playback systems are authorized to play back cloud queue and based on such a determination send an indication of the one or more media items from the queue to media playback system and may also send an indication of respective sources from which media playback system can retrieve the one or more media items.

In some cases the first set of queue operations might include modification of the queue and the second set of operations might not include modification . Media playback system of may request to modify cloud queue on one or more playback devices of media playback system by sending a request to remote server . For instance remote server may receive a request to modify cloud queue by inserting one or more additional media items into the queue. Remote server may determine that the queue is assigned the first access status such that media playback systems are authorized to modify the queue and based on the determination modify the queue according to the request and send an indication of the one or more additional media items to media playback system and perhaps also media playback systems and .

In some embodiments a cloud queue may have a finite lifespan. The cloud queue may expire upon certain conditions. In such an embodiment the first access status may be assigned to a cloud queue during its lifespan and the second access status may be assigned to a cloud queue that has reached end of life or expired.

At block the method involves detecting a trigger that indicates a change in access status of the queue. For instance remote server of may detect a trigger that indicates a change in access status of cloud queue . As noted above in some embodiments a cloud queue may have a finite lifespan and the trigger may indicate the end of life of the cloud queue. In various embodiments the trigger may correspond to different conditions.

In some embodiments the trigger may occur based on a threshold duration of time. For instance the trigger may occur based on a threshold duration of time elapsing from a certain reference event. Reference events may include the establishment of the queue or perhaps the last instance on which the queue was played back. In such an example detecting the trigger may involve determining that a threshold duration of time has elapsed since the reference event occurred e.g. since the queue was established . Alternatively a cloud queue may be limited to a particular duration of playback time before reaching end of life. For example detecting the trigger may involve determining that the duration of time that the queue has been played back exceeds a threshold duration. In this example the reference event may include an initiation of playback of the queue.

The trigger may be based on other conditions related to the extent of access to the queue. For example detecting the trigger may involve determining that one or more media playback systems have played back the media items of the queue on more than a threshold number of occasions. Within examples each media item may be limited to a certain threshold number of plays or the media items of the queue may be limited to a combined threshold e.g. plays . Alternatively detecting the trigger may involve determining that a threshold number of media playback systems have accessed the queue or perhaps that the queue has been accessed on a threshold number of occasions.

In some cases the trigger may correspond to licensing restrictions of the media items within the cloud queue. The computing system may receive data that indicates respective licensing restrictions for each of the media items within the queue and identify the trigger based on such data. For instance media items from a particular label may be restricted to five plays per week. To comply with such a restriction the computing system may change the access status of the queue after reaching such a threshold.

At block the method involves modifying the access status of the queue from the first access status to a second access status. For instance a computing system may modify the access status based on detecting the trigger that indicates the change in access status e.g. upon detecting the trigger . As noted above the second access status indicates that media playback systems are authorized to perform a second set of queue operations. The second set of operations may include fewer operations or include operations that involve a lesser extent of access.

For example the second set of operations might include playback of the queue but might not include modification of the queue which might be included within the first set of operations . Referring back to remote server may change the access status of cloud queue from a first access status to a second access status. Thereafter remote server may receive a request from media playback system to modify cloud queue such as by including one or more additional media items in the queue deleting items from the queue or re ordering items within the queue . Remote server may determine that the cloud queue is assigned the second access status such that media playback systems are unauthorized to modify the queue and rather than modifying cloud queue send to media playback system an indication that media playback systems are not authorized to modify the queue.

As another example the second set of operations might include playback of a subset of the queue. For instance some of the media items of the queue might be limited by licensing or other restrictions while other items might not be restricted. To illustrate remote server may receive from media playback system a request for an indication of one or more media items from cloud queue for playback. Remote server may determine that cloud queue is assigned the second access status such that media playback systems are authorized to playback a subset of the queue. Remote server may identify media items that are included in the subset and send an indication of the identified media items to media playback system .

Other combinations of operations are possible as well. As a further example the second set of operations might include display of the queue and might not include playback or modification of the queue such that the queue is only available for viewing. As noted above a control device of a media playback system may cause a graphical interface to display an indication of a cloud queue which might include an indication of the media items of the cloud queue and perhaps the ordering of the media items as well. Such display may be authorized under some access status but not others. As another example the second set of operations might exclude playback.

At block the method involves sending an indication of the second access status to a media playback system. For instance referring back to remote server may send an indication of the second access status of cloud queue to media playback system and perhaps also media playback systems and . Upon receiving the indication of the second access status access to cloud queue may be limited to the second set of operations.

In some cases receiving the indication of the second access status may cause deletion i.e. removal of the local copies of the cloud queues. For instance remote server may send an indication of the second access status of cloud queue to media playback systems and which may cause deletion of local queues and . More particularly the indication may include instructions that cause the local queue removal.

In some cases the indication of the second access status may be based on a requested operation. For instance upon receiving a request to perform an operation the computing system may determine whether the assigned access status of the queue indicates that such an operation is authorized and responsively permit or deny the request to perform the operation. In permitting the request the computing system may carry out the requested operation and send an indication of the operation to the requesting media playback system. In denying the request the computing system may send an indication that such an operation is not authorized or perhaps that the queue is assigned a particular status under which the operation is not permitted.

In some embodiments the access status of a queue may be modified from the second access status back to the first access status. For example a cloud queue that has expired may be revived perhaps under certain conditions. If the access status of a queue can be modified the media playback systems may receive an indication that the access status may be modified. Such media playback systems may request to modify the access status perhaps based on detecting input data that requests access to the queue. Upon receiving such a request the media playback system may determine whether such a request is authorized perhaps based on the licensing data noted above and modify the access status given that such an operation is authorized.

As noted above embodiments described herein may involve controlling access to a cloud queue based on various settings or properties of the cloud queue. illustrates an example method that involves a cloud queue that has two or more access statuses with each access status indicating a different set of queue operations that are permitted to be performed with respect to the local queue that is associated with the cloud queue. The local queue may be a local instance or copy of a cloud queue.

At block of method the method involves receiving an indication of a queue of media items and an indication that the queue has a first access status. For instance referring to a device of media playback system e.g. an instance of a playback device or a control device may receive an indication of cloud queue and an indication that cloud queue has a first access status. As noted above the first access status may indicate that the playback device is authorized to perform a first set of queue operations such as the operations noted above.

At block the method involves establishing a local queue. For instance a playback device of media playback system may establish local queue which may be a local instance of cloud queue that includes the media items indicated in cloud queue . In some cases the local instance may include a subset of media items from cloud queue . The subset might include a sequence of one or more media items that includes a media item that is designated as the currently playing media item perhaps by way of a playhead.

At block the method involves receiving an indication that the queue has been assigned a second access status. For instance the playback device of media playback system may receive an indication that cloud queue has been assigned a second access status. As noted above the second access status may indicate that the playback device of the media playback system is authorized to perform a second set of operations. The second access status may indicate that the queue has expired i.e. reached end of life and accordingly is available only for a limited set of operations compared to the operations available during its lifetime.

At block the method involves restricting the local queue to the second set of operations. For instance the playback device of media playback system may restrict local queue to the second set of operations. In operation the playback device may receive requests to perform operations with respect to the local queue and or the cloud queue perhaps from a control device. Upon receiving a request the playback device may determine whether the requested operations is within the second set of operations and carry out the operation given that the operation is authorized.

The playback device may also send an indication of the second access status to other devices of the media playback system such as one or more additional playback devices and perhaps one or more control devices. This may distribute the status of the cloud queue among devices of the media playback system . In some cases the media playback system may delete local queue . For instance each device of the media playback system may delete data related to the cloud queue perhaps based on receiving the indication of the second access status.

As noted above after the local queue is restricted the media playback system may perform the second set of operations. The second set of operations may be a limited set of operations as compared to the first set of operations. For instance playback of the queue may be limited to a subset of media items or to display of the queue among other examples.

At block of method a control device of a media playback system may display a controller interface such as controller interface of . The controller interface may include an indication of one or more cloud queues that the media playback system is currently accessing or has accessed. For instance the controller interface may display a cloud queue that the media playback system is currently accessing i.e. an active queue in a playback queue region such as the playback queue region of . In some cases the controller interface may include an indication of other cloud queues and or local queues that the media playback system has established or accessed. The interface may also include controls for playback and or modification of the cloud queue.

At block the method involves receiving an indication of the access status of the queue. For instance the control device may receive an indication of the access status of the cloud queue from a playback device of the media playback system or perhaps from a remote server that maintains or has access to the cloud queue. The control device may periodically receive an indication of the access status or may receive an indication of the access status upon the access status changing.

In some embodiments receiving the access status may involve receiving an indication of the lifetime remaining until a trigger event occurs that changes the access status. As noted above a remote server may modify the access status of a cloud queue based on a trigger. Further the trigger may relate to various thresholds that relate to the extent of queue access that has occurred. During the lifetime of the queue the controller device may receive one or more indications of the amount of lifetime left before the trigger threshold is reached. For instance the control device may receive an indication of the amount of time remaining until a threshold duration of time has elapsed. As another example the control device may receive an indication of the number of plays that are remaining before a threshold number of plays are reached. Other examples are possible as well.

At block the method involves causing a graphical interface to display an indication of the access status of a cloud queue. In some embodiments a controller interface may include an indication of the access status e.g. whether a cloud queue has a first access status or a second access status . For instance the controller interface may indicate that the cloud queue is limited by a lifetime or that the cloud queue has expired e.g. reached end of life . Upon a queue reaching end of life the controller interface may indicate that the cloud queue is limited to certain operations i.e. the second set of operations . The control device may display controls of the controller interface that are operable to perform operations that are not within the second set of operations. The controller interface may change visually to indicate that certain controls or items are unavailable such as by changing the color or appearance of the unavailable items.

As noted above a remote server may modify the access status of a cloud queue based on a trigger. Further the trigger may relate to various thresholds that relate to the extent of queue access that has occurred. During the lifetime of the queue the controller interface may include an indication of the amount of lifetime left before the trigger threshold is reached. For instance the controller interface may include an indication of the amount of time remaining until a threshold duration of time has elapsed. As another example the controller interface may show a progress bar or other indicator that shows how many plays are remaining before a threshold number of plays are reached. Other example indications to show the remaining lifetime of the queue are possible as well.

The description above discloses among other things various example systems methods apparatus and articles of manufacture including among other components firmware and or software executed on hardware. It is understood that such examples are merely illustrative and should not be considered as limiting. For example it is contemplated that any or all of the firmware hardware and or software aspects or components can be embodied exclusively in hardware exclusively in software exclusively in firmware or in any combination of hardware software and or firmware. Accordingly the examples provided are not the only way s to implement such systems methods apparatus and or articles of manufacture.

As indicated above example techniques may involve controlling access to a cloud queue based on an authorization token. In one aspect a method is provided. The method may involve obtaining an authorization token corresponding to a particular queue of media items at a remote server. The method may also involve sending i the obtained authorization token and ii a request for access to one or more media items of the particular queue. The method may further involve receiving an indication that the media playback system may access the one or more media items.

In another aspect a device is provided. The device includes a network interface at least one processor a data storage and program logic stored in the data storage and executable by the at least one processor to perform functions. The functions may include obtaining an authorization token corresponding to a particular queue of media items at a remote server. The functions may also include sending i the obtained authorization token and ii a request for access to one or more media items of the particular queue. The functions may further include receiving an indication that the media playback system may access the one or more media items.

In yet another aspect a non transitory computer readable memory is provided. The non transitory computer readable memory has stored thereon instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to perform functions. The functions may include obtaining an authorization token corresponding to a particular queue of media items at a remote server. The functions may also include sending i the obtained authorization token and ii a request for access to one or more media items of the particular queue. The functions may further include receiving an indication that the media playback system may access the one or more media items.

In yet another aspect another method is provided. The method may involve receiving i an authorization token associated with a particular media playback system and ii a request for access by the media playback system to a queue of media items. The method may also involve determining the access to the queue that the authorization token authenticates to the media playback system. The method may further involve providing the media playback system the access to the media items that the authorization token authenticates to the media playback system.

In another aspect a device is provided. The device includes a network interface at least one processor a data storage and program logic stored in the data storage and executable by the at least one processor to perform functions. The functions may include receiving i an authorization token associated with a particular media playback system and ii a request for access by the media playback system to a queue of media items. The functions may also include determining the access to the queue that the authorization token authenticates to the media playback system. The functions may further include providing the media playback system the access to the media items that the authorization token authenticates to the media playback system.

In yet another aspect a non transitory computer readable memory is provided. The non transitory computer readable memory has stored thereon instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to perform functions. The functions may include receiving i an authorization token associated with a particular media playback system and ii a request for access by the media playback system to a queue of media items. The functions may also include determining the access to the queue that the authorization token authenticates to the media playback system. The functions may further include providing the media playback system the access to the media items that the authorization token authenticates to the media playback system.

Also as indicated above example techniques may involve granting entities respective types of access. In one aspect a method is provided. The method may involve receiving i a request from a first media playback system for access to a queue of media items and ii a request from a second media playback system for access to the queue of media items. The method may also involve granting i a first type of access to the first media playback system and ii a second type of access to the second media playback system. The first type of access may authorize the first media playback system to perform a first set of operations on the queue of media items and a second type of access may authorize the second media playback system to perform a second set of operations on the queue of media items that is different from the first set of operations. The method may further involve providing i an indication that the first media playback system may access the queue as authorized by the first type of access and ii an indication that the second media playback system may access the queue as authorized by the second type of access.

In another aspect a device is provided. The device includes a network interface at least one processor a data storage and program logic stored in the data storage and executable by the at least one processor to perform functions. The functions may include receiving i respective requests from a plurality of first media playback systems for respective access to a queue of media items and ii a request from a second media playback system for access to the queue of media items. The functions may also include granting i a first type of access to the first media playback systems and ii a second type of access to the second media playback system. The first type of access may authorize the first media playback system to perform a first set of operations on the queue of media items and a second type of access may authorize the second media playback system to perform a second set of operations on the queue of media items that is different from the first set of operations. The functions may further include providing i the first media playback systems access to the queue as authorized by the first type of access rights and ii the second media playback system access to the queue as authorized by the second type of access rights.

In yet another aspect a non transitory computer readable memory is provided. The non transitory computer readable memory has stored thereon instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to perform functions. The functions may include receiving i respective requests from a plurality of first media playback systems for respective access to a queue of media items and ii a request from a second media playback system for access to the queue of media items. The functions may also include granting i a first type of access to the first media playback systems and ii a second type of access to the second media playback system. The first type of access may authorize the first media playback system to perform a first set of operations on the queue of media items and a second type of access may authorize the second media playback system to perform a second set of operations on the queue of media items that is different from the first set of operations. The functions may further include providing i the first media playback systems access to the queue as authorized by the first type of access rights and ii the second media playback system access to the queue as authorized by the second type of access rights.

In yet another aspect another method is provided. The method may involve sending a request for access to a queue of media items. The method may also involve receiving an indication that the media playback system may access the queue as authorized by a first type of access. The first type of access may authorize the first media playback system to perform a first set of operations on the queue of media items and a second type of access may authorize the second media playback system to perform a second set of operations on the queue of media items that is different from the first set of operations. The method may further involve receiving an indication of one or more media items of the queue.

In another aspect a device is provided. The device includes a network interface at least one processor a data storage and program logic stored in the data storage and executable by the at least one processor to perform functions. The functions may include sending a request for access to a queue of media items. The functions may also include receiving an indication that the media playback system may access the queue as authorized by a first type of access. The first type of access may authorize the first media playback system to perform a first set of operations on the queue of media items and a second type of access may authorize the second media playback system to perform a second set of operations on the queue of media items that is different from the first set of operations. The functions may further include receiving an indication of one or more media items of the queue.

In yet another aspect a non transitory computer readable memory is provided. The non transitory computer readable memory has stored thereon instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to perform functions. The functions may include sending a request for access to a queue of media items. The functions may also include receiving an indication that the media playback system may access the queue as authorized by a first type of access. The first type of access may authorize the first media playback system to perform a first set of operations on the queue of media items and a second type of access may authorize the second media playback system to perform a second set of operations on the queue of media items that is different from the first set of operations. The functions may further include receiving an indication of one or more media items of the queue.

As further indicated above example techniques may involve controlling access to a cloud queue based on a configuration or settings of the cloud queue itself. In one aspect a method is provided. The method may involve receiving a request to establish a queue of media items. The method may also involve assigning a first access status to the queue. The first access status may indicate that at least one media playback system is authorized to perform a first set of queue operations. After assigning the first access status to the queue the method may involve detecting a trigger that indicates a change in access status of the queue. Based on the detected trigger the method may involve modifying the access status of the queue from the first access status to a second access status. The second access status may indicate that the at least one media playback system is authorized to perform a second set of queue operations that is different from the first set of queue operations. The method may also involve sending an indication of the second access status to a media playback system.

In another aspect a device is provided. The device includes a network interface at least one processor a data storage and program logic stored in the data storage and executable by the at least one processor to perform functions. The functions may include receiving a request to establish a queue of media items. The functions may also include assigning a first access status to the queue. The first access status may indicate that at least one media playback system is authorized to perform a first set of queue operations. After assigning the first access status to the queue the functions may include detecting a trigger that indicates a change in access status of the queue. The functions may include modifying the access status of the queue from the first access status to a second access status based on the detected trigger. The second access status may indicate that the at least one media playback system is authorized to perform a second set of queue operations that is different from the first set of queue operations. The functions may also include sending an indication of the second access status to a media playback system.

In yet another aspect a non transitory computer readable memory is provided. The non transitory computer readable memory has stored thereon instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to perform functions. The functions may include receiving a request to establish a queue of media items. The functions may also include assigning a first access status to the queue. The first access status may indicate that at least one media playback system is authorized to perform a first set of queue operations. After assigning the first access status to the queue the functions may include detecting a trigger that indicates a change in access status of the queue. The functions may include modifying the access status of the queue from the first access status to a second access status based on the detected trigger. The second access status may indicate that the at least one media playback system is authorized to perform a second set of queue operations that is different from the first set of queue operations. The functions may also include sending an indication of the second access status to a media playback system.

In yet another aspect another method is provided. The method may involve receiving i an indication of a queue of media items and ii an indication that the queue has a first access status. The first access status may indicate that the playback device is authorized to perform a first set of queue operations. The method may also involve establishing a local instance of the queue. The method may further involve receiving an indication that the queue has been assigned a second access status. The second access status may indicate that the playback device is authorized to perform a second set of queue operations that is different from the first set of queue operations. The method may involve restricting the local instance of the queue to the second set of queue operations.

In another aspect a device is provided. The device includes a network interface at least one processor a data storage and program logic stored in the data storage and executable by the at least one processor to perform functions. The functions may include receiving i an indication of a queue of media items and ii an indication that the queue has a first access status. The first access status may indicate that the playback device is authorized to perform a first set of queue operations. The functions may also include establishing a local instance of the queue. The functions may further include receiving an indication that the queue has been assigned a second access status. The second access status may indicate that the playback device is authorized to perform a second set of queue operations that is different from the first set of queue operations. The functions may include restricting the local instance of the queue to the second set of queue operations.

In yet another aspect a non transitory computer readable memory is provided. The non transitory computer readable memory has stored thereon instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to perform functions. The functions may include receiving i an indication of a queue of media items and ii an indication that the queue has a first access status. The first access status may indicate that the playback device is authorized to perform a first set of queue operations. The functions may also include establishing a local instance of the queue. The functions may further include receiving an indication that the queue has been assigned a second access status. The second access status may indicate that the playback device is authorized to perform a second set of queue operations that is different from the first set of queue operations. The functions may include restricting the local instance of the queue to the second set of queue operations.

In another aspect a method is provided. The method may involve displaying an indication of a queue on a graphical interface. The method may further involve receiving an indication of an access status of the queue. The method may also involve displaying an indication of the access status of the queue.

In another aspect a device is provided. The device includes a network interface at least one processor a data storage and program logic stored in the data storage and executable by the at least one processor to perform functions. The functions may include displaying an indication of a queue on a graphical interface. The functions may further include receiving an indication of an access status of the queue. The functions may also include displaying an indication of the access status of the queue.

In yet another aspect a non transitory computer readable memory is provided. The non transitory computer readable memory has stored thereon instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to perform functions. The functions may include displaying an indication of a queue on a graphical interface. The functions may further include receiving an indication of an access status of the queue. The functions may also include displaying an indication of the access status of the queue.

The specification is presented largely in terms of illustrative environments systems procedures steps logic blocks processing and other symbolic representations that directly or indirectly resemble the operations of data processing devices coupled to networks. These process descriptions and representations are typically used by those skilled in the art to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. Numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. However it is understood to those skilled in the art that certain embodiments of the present disclosure can be practiced without certain specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuitry have not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring aspects of the embodiments. Accordingly the scope of the present disclosure is defined by the appended claims rather than the forgoing description of embodiments.

When any of the appended claims are read to cover a purely software and or firmware implementation at least one of the elements in at least one example is hereby expressly defined to include a tangible non transitory medium such as a memory DVD CD Blu ray and so on storing the software and or firmware.

