---

title: Electronic device including display with bent area
abstract: A portable electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a transparent front glass cover including a planar portion that forms a front surface of the electronic device, a planar rear glass cover that forms a rear surface of the electronic device, a metal bezel that surrounds a space formed by the front glass cover and the rear glass cover, and a flexible display device that is embedded in the space and exposed through the front glass cover. The front cover includes a left bent portion and a right bent portion on the left and right of the planar portion at the center of the front cover.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09578149&OS=09578149&RS=09578149
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09578149
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20160107
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of a U.S. provisional patent application filed on Feb. 6 2015 in the United States Patent and Trademark Office and assigned Ser. No. 62 113 108 and under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed on May 7 2015 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial number 10 2015 0063939 the entire disclosure of each of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to an electronic device. More particularly the present disclosure relates to an electronic device that includes a display with a bent or curved area.

With the advancement of electronic communication technologies electronic devices having various functions have appeared. Such electronic devices generally have a convergence function that performs one or more function compositely.

As the functional differences between electronic devices of respective manufacturers have recently been greatly reduced the manufacturers tend to make an effort to increase the rigidity of the electronic devices which are being gradually slimmed in order to satisfy consumers purchasing needs and to strengthen the design features of the electronic devices. As a part of the effort various structures e.g. exteriors of the electronic devices are at least partially implemented by using a metal material so as to appeal to the luxuriousness and elegance of the exterior of electronic devices.

In addition terminal manufacturers make an effort to deliver intuitive and diverse information to users through slimmed electronic devices and as a part of the effort the terminal manufacturers tend to release displays of various shapes to display information.

Further the manufacturers make an effort to address for example a weakened rigidity issue a ground issue e.g. an electric shock issue and the issue of reduced antenna radiating performance which are encountered when a metal material is used.

Electronic devices of the related art have adopted standardized planar displays as an information output means. Such displays promote information delivery merely by enlarging a screen thereof. As such it is unavoidable that the entire volume of the electronic devices increase by the enlarged area of the display. In addition since the standardized planar displays allow information to be confirmed in only one direction according to the disposed condition of the electronic devices the information delivery capability is inevitably limited.

The above information is presented as background information only to assist with an understanding of the present disclosure. No determination has been made and no assertion is made as to whether any of the above might be applicable as prior art with regard to the present disclosure.

Aspects of the present disclosure are to address at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure is to provide an electronic device including a display with a bent area.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide an electronic device including a display with a bent area which is configured to enable information delivery in various directions.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide an electronic device including a display with a bent area which is capable of improving the convenience of use by intuitively providing diverse information to users.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a transparent front glass cover that includes a planar surface that forms a front surface of the electronic device a planar rear glass cover that forms a rear surface of the electronic device a metal bezel that surrounds a space formed by the front glass cover and the rear glass cover and a flexible display device that is embedded in the space and exposed through the front glass cover.

The front glass cover includes a first curved surface that extends from a first side edge of the planar surface and a second curved surface that extends from a second side edge of the planar surface and is formed opposite to the first curved surface. The flexible display device includes a touch screen that extends along the first curved surface the planar surface and the second curved surface.

The metal bezel includes a first side surface that encloses an edge of the first curved surface a second side surface that encloses an edge of the second curved surface a third side surface that interconnects one end of the first side surface and one end of the second side surface and a fourth side surface that interconnects the other end of the first side surface and the other end of the second side surface.

The first side surface and the second side surface have a first height and the third side surface and the fourth side surface have a second height that is larger than the first height.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a transparent front glass cover that includes a first planar surface that forms a front surface of the electronic device a planar rear glass cover that includes a second planar surface that forms a rear surface of the electronic device a metal bezel that surrounds a space formed by the front glass cover and the rear glass cover and a flexible display device that is embedded in the space and exposed through the front glass cover.

The front glass cover includes a first curved surface that extends from a first side edge of the first planar surface and a second curved surface that extends from a second side edge of the first planar surface and is formed opposite to the first curved surface.

The rear glass cover includes a third curved surface that extends from a first side edge of the second planar surface and a fourth curved surface that extends from a second side edge of the second planar surface and is formed opposite to the third curved surface.

The flexible display device includes a touch screen that extends along the first curved surface the first planar surface and the second curved surface.

The metal bezel includes a first side surface that encloses edges of the first curved surface and the third curved surface a second side surface that encloses edges of the second curved surface and the fourth curved surface a third side surface that interconnects one end of the first side surface and one end of the second side surface and a fourth side surface that interconnects the other end of the first side surface and the other end of the second side surface.

The first side surface and the second side surface have a first height and the third side surface and the fourth side surface have a second height that is larger than the first height.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses various embodiments of the present disclosure.

Throughout the drawings like reference numerals will be understood to refer to like parts components and structures.

The following description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of various embodiments of the present disclosure as defined by the claims and their equivalents. It includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the various embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness.

The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to the bibliographical meanings but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the present disclosure. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of various embodiments of the present disclosure is provided for illustration purpose only and not for the purpose of limiting the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a component surface includes reference to one or more of such surfaces.

By the term substantially it is meant that the recited characteristic parameter or value need not be achieved exactly but that deviations or variations including for example tolerances measurement error measurement accuracy limitations and other factors known to those of skill in the art may occur in amounts that do not preclude the effect the characteristic was intended to provide.

The terms have may have include or may include as used herein indicate the presence of disclosed corresponding functions operations elements and the like and do not limit additional one or more functions operations elements and the like. In addition the terms include or have indicate the presence of features numbers operations elements parts or a combination thereof described in the specifications and do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features numbers operations elements parts or a combination thereof.

The terms A or B at least one of A or and B or one or more of A or and B as used herein include any and all combinations of words enumerated with it. For example A or B at least one of A and B or at least one of A or B describes 1 including A 2 including B or 3 including both A and B.

Although terms such as first and second as used herein may modify various elements of various embodiments of the present disclosure these terms do not limit the corresponding elements. For example these terms do not limit an order and or importance of the corresponding elements. These terms may be used for the purpose of distinguishing one element from another element. For example a first user device and a second user device both indicate user devices and may indicate different user devices. For example a first element may be named a second element without departing from the scope of the present disclosure and similarly a second element may be named a first element.

When an element e.g. a first element is connected to or operatively or communicatively coupled with to another element e.g. a second element the first element may be directly connected or coupled to the second element and there may be an intervening element e.g. a third element between the first element and the second element. To the contrary when an element e.g. the first element is directly connected or directly coupled to another element e.g. the second element there is no intervening element e.g. the third element between the first element and the second element.

The expression configured to or set to as used herein may be replaced with suitable for having the capacity to designed to adapted to made to or capable of according to the situation. The term configured to set to does not necessarily indicate specifically designed to in a hardware level. Instead the expression apparatus configured to . . . may indicate that the apparatus is capable of . . . along with other devices or parts in a certain situation. For example a processor configured to set to perform A B and C may be a dedicated processor e.g. an embedded processor for performing a corresponding operation or a generic purpose processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU or an application processor AP capable of performing a corresponding operation by executing one or more software programs stored in a memory device.

The terms as used herein are used merely to describe certain embodiments of the present disclosure and are not intended to limit the present disclosure. Further all the terms used herein including technical and scientific terms should be interpreted to have the same meanings as commonly understood by those skilled in the art to which the present disclosure pertains and should not be interpreted to have ideal or excessively formal meanings unless explicitly defined herein.

A module or programming module according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may further include at least one or more constituent elements among the aforementioned constituent elements or may omit some of them or may further include additional constituent elements. Operations performed by a module programming module or other constituent elements may be executed in a sequential parallel repetitive or heuristic manner. In addition some of the operations may be executed in a different order or may be omitted or other operations may be added.

An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of a smart phone a tablet personal computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a workstation a server a personal digital assistant PDA a portable multimedia player PMP a moving picture experts group phase 1 or phase 2 MPEG 1 or MPEG 2 audio layer 3 MP3 player a mobile medical device a camera or a wearable device e.g. a head mounted device HMD an electronic glasses an electronic clothing an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic appcessory an electronic tattoo a smart mirror a smart watch and the like .

An electronic device may also be a smart home appliance. For example smart home appliances may include at least one of a television TV a digital versatile disc DVD player an audio component a refrigerator an air conditioner a vacuum cleaner an oven a microwave oven a washing machine an air cleaner a set top box a home automation control panel a security control panel a TV box e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV a game console e.g. Xbox PlayStation an electronic dictionary an electronic key a camcorder an electronic frame and the like.

An electronic device may also include at least one of a medical equipment e.g. a mobile medical device e.g. a blood glucose monitoring device a heart rate monitor a blood pressure monitoring device a temperature meter and the like a magnetic resonance angiography MRA machine a magnetic resonance imaging MRI machine a computed tomography CT scanner an ultrasound machine and the like a navigation device a global positioning system GPS receiver an event data recorder EDR a flight data recorder FDR an in vehicle infotainment device an electronic equipment for a ship e.g. a ship navigation equipment and or a gyrocompass an avionics equipment a security equipment a head unit for vehicle an industrial or home robot an automatic teller machine ATM point of sale POS device or an internet of things device e.g. a light bulb various sensors an electronic meter a gas meter a sprinkler a fire alarm a thermostat a streetlamp a toaster a sporting equipment a hot water tank a heater a boiler and the like .

An electronic device may also include at least one of a piece of furniture or a building structure an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector and various measuring instruments e.g. a water meter an electricity meter a gas meter a wave meter and the like .

Further it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that an electronic device is not limited to the above mentioned examples.

Herein the term user may indicate a person who uses an electronic device or a device e.g. an artificial intelligence electronic device that uses the electronic device.

An electronic device of a single radio environment can provide long term evolution LTE service using circuit switched fall back CSFB which determines whether paging information of a CS service network is received over an LTE network. When receiving a paging signal of the CS service network over the LTE network the electronic device connects or accesses the CS service network e.g. a 2generation 2G 3rd generation 3G network and provides a voice call service. For example the 2G network can include one or more of a global system for mobile communications GSM network and a code division multiple access CDMA network. The 3G network can include one or more of a wideband CDMA WCDMA network a time division synchronous CDMA TD SCDMA network and an evolution data optimized EV DO network.

Alternatively the electronic device of the single radio environment can provide LTE service using single radio LTE SRLTE which determines whether the paging information is received by periodically switching every radio resource e.g. receive antennas to the CS service network e.g. the 2G 3G network . Upon receiving the paging signal of the CS service network the electronic device provides the voice call service by connecting the CS service network e.g. the 2G 3G network .

Alternatively the electronic device of the single radio environment can provide LTE service using single radio dual system SRDS which determines whether the paging information is received by periodically switching some of radio resources e.g. receive antennas to the CS service network e.g. the 2G 3G network . Upon receiving the paging signal of the CS service network the electronic device provides the voice call service by connecting the CS service network e.g. the 2G 3G network .

Referring to an electronic device includes a bus a processor a memory an input output interface a display and a communication interface . In various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device can omit at least one of the components or further include another component.

The bus includes a circuit for connecting the components e.g. the processor the memory the input output interface the display and the communication interface and delivering communications e.g. a control message therebetween.

The processor includes one or more of a CPU an AP and a communication processor CP . The processor processes an operation or data on control of and or communication with another component of the electronic device .

The processor which is connected to the LTE network determines whether a call is connected over the CS service network using caller identification information e.g. a caller phone number of the CS service network e.g. the 2G 3G network . For example the processor receives incoming call information e.g. a CS notification message or a paging request message of the CS service network over the LTE network e.g. CSFB . For example the processor being connected to the LTE network receives incoming call information e.g. a paging request message over the CS service network e.g. SRLTE .

When receiving the incoming call information e.g. a CS notification message or a paging request message of the CS service network over the LTE network the processor obtains caller identification information from the incoming call information. The processor displays the caller identification information on its display . The processor determines whether to connect the call based on input information corresponding to the caller identification information displayed on the display . For example when detecting input information corresponding to an incoming call rejection through the input output interface the processor restricts the voice call connection and maintains the LTE network connection. For example when detecting input information corresponding to an incoming call acceptance through the input output interface the processor connects the voice call by connecting to the CS service network.

When receiving the incoming call information e.g. a CS notification message or a paging request message of the CS service network over the LTE network the processor obtains caller identification information from the incoming call information. The processor determines whether to connect the call by comparing the caller identification information with a reception control list. For example when the caller identification information is included in a first reception control list e.g. a blacklist the processor restricts the voice call connection and maintains the connection to the LTE network. For example when the caller identification information is not included in the first reception control list e.g. the blacklist the processor connects the voice call by connecting to the CS service network. For example when the caller identification information is included in a second reception control list e.g. a white list the processor connects the voice call by connecting to the CS service network.

When receiving the incoming call information e.g. a paging request message of the CS service network over the LTE network the processor transmits an incoming call response message e.g. a paging response message to the CS service network. The processor suspends the LTE service and receives the caller identification information e.g. a CS call CC setup message from the CS service network. The processor determines whether to connect the call by comparing the caller identification information with the reception control list. For example when the caller identification information is included in the first reception control list e.g. the blacklist the processor restricts the voice call connection and resumes the LTE network connection. For example when the caller identification information is not included in the first reception control list e.g. the blacklist the processor connects the voice call by connecting to the CS service network. For example when the caller identification information is included in the second reception control list e.g. the white list the processor connects the voice call by connecting to the CS service network.

The memory can include volatile and or nonvolatile memory. The memory stores commands or data e.g. the reception control list relating to at least another component of the electronic device . The memory may store software and or a program . The program may include for example a kernel middleware an application programming interface API and or application programs or applications . At least some of the kernel the middleware and the API may be referred to as an operating system OS .

The kernel controls or manages system resources e.g. the bus the processor or the memory used for performing an operation or function implemented by the other programs e.g. the middleware the API or the applications . Furthermore the kernel provides an interface through which the middleware the API or the applications connects the individual elements of the electronic device to control or manage the system resources.

The middleware functions as an intermediary for allowing the API or the applications to communicate with the kernel to exchange data.

In addition the middleware processes one or more task requests received from the applications according to priorities thereof. For example the middleware assigns priorities for using the system resources e.g. the bus the processor the memory and the like of the electronic device to at least one of the applications . For example the middleware may perform scheduling or load balancing on the one or more task requests by processing the one or more task requests according to the priorities assigned thereto.

The API is an interface through which the applications control functions provided from the kernel or the middleware and may include at least one interface or function e.g. an instruction for file control window control image processing text control and the like.

The input output interface functions as an interface that transfers instructions or data input from a user or another external device to the other element s of the electronic device . Furthermore the input output interface outputs the instructions or data received from the other element s of the electronic device to the user or an external electronic device.

The display may include a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display a micro electro mechanical system MEMS display an electronic paper display and the like. The display displays various types of content e.g. a text images videos icons symbols and the like for the user. The display may include a touch screen and receive for example a touch a gesture proximity a hovering input and the like using an electronic pen or the user s body part. The display may display a web page.

The communication interface can establish a communication between the electronic device and an external electronic device e.g. a first external electronic device a second external electronic device or a server . For example the communication interface can communicate with the first external electronic device through a wireless communication or a wired communication and also communicate with the second external electronic device or the server in connection to a network through wireless communication or wired communication. For example the wireless communication can conform to a cellular communication protocol including at least one of LTE LTE advanced LTE A CDMA WCDMA universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS wireless broadband WiBro and GSM.

The wired communication can include at least one of universal serial bus USB high definition multimedia interface HDMI recommended standard 232 RS 232 and plain old telephone service POTS .

The network can include at least one of telecommunications networks for example a computer network e.g. a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN the Internet a telephone network and the like.

The electronic device provides the LTE service in the single radio environment by use of at least one module functionally or physically separated from the processor . Various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described with reference to a display that includes a bent or curved area and is applied to a housing of an electronic device in which a non metal member and a metal member e.g. a metal bezel are formed through dual injection molding but are not limited thereto. For example the display may be applied to a housing in which a metal member or a non metal member is formed of a single material.

Each of the first external electronic device and the second external electronic device may be a type of device that is the same as or different from the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the server may include a group of one or more servers. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure all or some of the operations to be executed by the electronic device may be executed by another electronic device or a plurality of other electronic devices e.g. the first external electronic device and the second external electronic device or the server . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure in the case where the electronic device should perform a certain function or service automatically or by request the electronic device may request some functions that are associated therewith from the other electronic devices e.g. the first external electronic device and the second external electronic device or the server instead of or in addition to executing the function or service by itself. The other electronic devices e.g. the first external electronic device and the second external electronic device or the server may execute the requested functions or additional functions and may transmit the results to the electronic device . The electronic device may provide the requested functions or services by processing the received results as they are or additionally. For this purpose for example a cloud computing technique a distributed computing technique or a client server computing technique may be used.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described with reference to a display that includes a bent or curved area and is applied to a housing of an electronic device in which a non metal member and a metal member e.g. a metal bezel are formed through dual injection molding but are not limited thereto. For example the display may be applied to a housing in which a metal member or a non metal member is formed of a single material.

Referring to a display may be installed on a front surface of an electronic device . A receiver for receiving a voice of a counterpart may be disposed at the upper side of the display . A microphone device for transmitting a voice of a user of the electronic device to the counterpart may be disposed at the lower side of the display .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure components for performing various functions of the electronic device may be disposed around the receiver . The components may include at least one sensor module . The sensor module may include at least one of for example an illuminance sensor e.g. an optical sensor a proximity sensor e.g. an optical sensor an infrared sensor an ultrasonic sensor and the like. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the components may include a front camera device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the components may include an indicator to inform the user of state information of the electronic device .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may include a metal bezel as a metal housing. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the metal bezel may be disposed along the outer periphery of the electronic device and may be disposed to extend to at least a part of the rear surface of the electronic device which is continuous to the outer periphery. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the metal bezel defines at least a part of the thickness of the electronic device along the outer periphery of the electronic device and may be formed in a closed loop shape. Without being limited thereto however the metal bezel may be formed in a manner that contributes to at least a part of the thickness of the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the metal bezel may only be disposed in a part or more of the outer periphery of the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when the metal bezel may contribute to a part of the housing of the electronic device the remaining portion of the housing may be replaced by a non metal material. In such a case the housing may be formed in a manner of insert molding the non metal member to the metal bezel . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the metal bezel may include one or more cut off portions and so that a unit bezel portion separated by the cut off portions and may be utilized as an antenna radiator. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure an upper bezel portion may be configured as a unit bezel portion by one pair of cut off portions that are formed at a certain interval. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a lower bezel portion may be configured as a unit bezel portion by one pair of cut off portions that are formed at a certain interval. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cut off portions and may be formed in unison when the non metal member is insert molded to the metal member.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the metal bezel may have a closed loop shape along the outer periphery and may be disposed in a manner of contributing to the entire thickness of the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when the electronic device is viewed from the front side thereof the metal bezel may include a left bezel portion a right bezel portion an upper bezel portion and a lower bezel portion .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure on the lower bezel portion of the electronic device various electronic components may be disposed. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a speaker device may be disposed at one side of the microphone device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure at the other side of the microphone device an interface connector port may be disposed to perform a data transmission reception function with respect to an external device and to charge the electronic device by receiving an external power applied thereto. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure at one side of the interface connector port an ear jack hole may be disposed. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure all the microphone device the speaker device the interface connector port and the ear jack hole as described above may be disposed within the area of the unit bezel portion that is formed by one pair of cut of portions disposed in the lower bezel portion . Without being limited thereto however at least one of the above described electronic components may be disposed in the area that includes the cut off portion or may be disposed outside the unit bezel portion.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure various electronic components may also be disposed on the upper bezel portion of the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure on the upper bezel portion a socket device for insertion of a card type external device may be disposed. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the socket device may accommodate at least one of an inherent identification ID card for the electronic device e.g. a subscriber identity module SIM card or a user identity module UIM and a memory card for extending a storage space. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure at one side of the socket device an infrared sensor module may be disposed and at one side of the infrared sensor module an auxiliary microphone device may be disposed. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure all the socket device the infrared sensor module and the auxiliary microphone device may be disposed within the area of the unit bezel portion formed by one pair of cut off portions that are disposed in the upper bezel portion . Without being limited thereto however at least one of the above mentioned electronic components may be disposed in the area that includes of the cut off portion or may disposed outside the cut off portion.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure one or more first side key buttons may be disposed on the left bezel portion of the metal bezel . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure one pair of first side key buttons may be disposed on the left bezel portion to partially protrude to contribute to the execution of a volume up down function a scroll function and the like. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure one or more side key buttons may be disposed on the right bezel portion of the metal bezel . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the second side key button may be configured to perform a power ON OFF function an electronic device wake up sleep function and the like. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure at least one key button may be disposed in at least a portion of the lower area except for the display on the front surface of the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the key button may perform a home key button function. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a fingerprint recognition sensor device may be disposed on the top surface of the home key button. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the home key button may be configured to perform a first function a home screen return function a wake up sleep function and the like by physically pressing the home key button and to perform a second function e.g. a fingerprint recognition function by swiping the top surface of the home key button. Although not illustrated touch pads may be disposed on the left and right of the key button so as to perform a touch function.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a rear camera device may be disposed on the rear surface of the electronic device and one or more electronic components may be disposed at a side of the rear camera device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic components may include at least one of an illuminance sensor e.g. an optical sensor a proximity sensor e.g. an optical sensor an infrared sensor an ultrasonic sensor a heartrate sensor a flash device and the like.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the front surface in which the display is provided may include a planar portion and a left bent portion and a right bent portion which are formed on the left and right of the planar portion respectively. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the front surface of the electronic device may include a display area and the other areas e.g. a black matrix BM area by using a single window. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the left and right bent portions and may be formed to extend in an x axis direction of the electronic device of from the planar portion . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure each of the left and right bent portions and may be configured as a part of the side surfaces of the electronic device . In such a case the left and right bent portions and may be configured as the side surfaces of the electronic device together with the left and right bezel portions and of the metal bezel respectively. Without being limited thereto however the front surface in which the display is provided may include at least one of the left and right bent portions and . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the front surface may be configured to include only the left bent portion along the planar portion or to include only the right bent portion along the planar portion .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the front surface may include a flexible display module that is applied to at least a portion of the window that includes the bent portions and on the left and right thereof and the lower side of the window. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the area including the flexible display module may be configured as a display area . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the window may be formed in a manner in which the top and rear surfaces thereof are simultaneously bent hereinafter a three dimensional 3D type . Without being limited thereto the window may be formed in a manner in which the left and right portions of the top surface are formed in a curved shape and the rear surface is formed in a planar shape hereinafter two and a half dimensional 2.5D type . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the window may be formed of a transparent glass material e.g. a sapphire glass or a transparent synthetic resin material.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may control the display module so as to selectively display information. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may control the display module so as to configure a screen only on the planar portion . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may control the display module to configure a screen by any one of the left and right bent portions and together with the planar portion . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may control the display module to configure a screen by at least one of the left and right bent portions and excluding the planar portion .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the rear surface of the electronic device may also be entirely formed by one window . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the rear surface may include a planar portion that is substantially formed in the central portion to be the center and a left bent portion and a right bent portion which are formed on the left and right of the planar portion respectively. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the window may be configured in the 2.5D type in which the left and right bent portions and of the outer surface are formed in a curved shape and the rear surface is formed as a planar surface. Without being limited thereto however the window may be formed in the 3D type similar to the window disposed on the front surface . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure each of the left and right bent portions and may be configured as a part of the side surfaces of the electronic device . In such a case the left and right bent portion and may be configured as the side surfaces of the electronic device together with the left and right bezel portions of the metal bezel . Without being limited thereto however the rear surface may include only at least one of the left and right bent portions and . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the rear surface may be configured to include only the left bent portion along the planar portion or to include only the right bent portion along the planar portion .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the upper side left and right corner portions and the lower side left and right corner portions of the front surface may be formed to be simultaneously inclined in the x axis direction the y axis direction and the z axis direction in while the window is bent. With this shape the upper side left and right corner portions and the lower side left and right corner portions of the metal bezel may be formed such that the heights thereof gradually decrease towards the side surfaces respectively.

While a metal bezel which is configured as a part of the housing of the electronic device has been illustrated and described above various embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited thereto. For example various metal members disposed on the electronic device may be used for various embodiments of the present disclosure.

Referring to an electronic device may include a printed circuit board PCB a bracket a display module and a front window which may be disposed in a manner of being sequentially staked on the upper side of the housing . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may include a wireless power transmission reception member and a rear window which may be disposed in a manner of being sequentially staked on the lower side of the housing . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the battery pack is accommodated in an accommodation space of the battery pack which is formed in the housing and may be disposed to avoid the PCB . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the battery pack and the PCB may be disposed in parallel not to overlap with each other. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display module may be fixed to the bracket and the front window may be fixed by being attached to the bracket by a first adhesive member . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the rear window may be fixed by being attached to the housing by a second adhesive member .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the front window may include a planar portion and a left bent portion and a right bent portion which are bent in opposite directions from the planar portion . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the front window is positioned on the electronic device so as to form the front surface and is formed of a transparent material so as to display a screen presented by the display module and to provide an input output window for various sensors. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure while a shape in which the left and right bent portions and are formed in the 3D type is illustrated a shape in which the upper and lower portions as well as the left and right portions are single bent or a shape in which the upper lower left and right portions are dual bent may be applied. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a touch panel may be further disposed on the rear surface of the front window and may receive a touch input signal from the outside.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the display module may also be formed in a shape corresponding to that of the front window a shape having a curvature corresponding to that of the front window . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display module may include a planar portion and left and right bent portions and on the left and right of the planar portion . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a flexible display module may be used as the display module . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure in the case of a window in a type where the rear surface of the front window is formed in a planar shape hereinafter 2D type or 2.5 D type since the rear surface of the front window is planar an ordinary LCD or an on cell touch screen panel TSP active matrix OLED AMOLED OCTA may be applied.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the first adhesive member is a component for fixing the front window to a bracket that is disposed within the electronic device and may be a kind of tape such as a double sided tape or a liquid adhesive layer such as a bond. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when the double sided tape is applied as the first adhesive member a general polyethylene terephthalate PET or a functional base may be applied as the internal base of the adhesive member . For example by using a base formed of a foam type or shock resistive fabric material so as to reinforce the shock resistance it is possible to prevent the front window from being destroyed by external impact.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the bracket may be used as a component for reinforcing the entire rigidity of the electronic device by being disposed within the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the bracket may be formed of at least one metal selected from aluminum Al magnesium Mg and STS. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the bracket may be formed of a highly rigid plastic in which glass fibers are contained or may be formed of a combination of a metal and a plastic. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when a metal member and a non metal member are used in combination the bracket may be formed by insert molding the non metal member to the metal member. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the bracket is placed on the rear surface of the display module . The bracket may have a shape curvature that is similar to the shape of the rear surface of the display module and may support the display module . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure between the bracket and the display module an elastic member such as a sponge or a rubber and an adhesive layer such as a double sided tape or a kind of sheet such as a single sided tape may be additionally disposed so as to protect the display module . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a section of the bracket may further include a slot sinking or hole area for securing a component mounting space or a marginal space based on a change of a component during use such as the swelling of the battery pack . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure as needed a sheet type meal or composite material may be added to the corresponding hole area so as to reinforce the internal rigidity or an auxiliary device for improving a thermal characteristic an antenna characteristic and the like may be further provided in the hole area . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the bracket may be fastened to the housing e.g. the rear case so as to form a space therein and at least one electronic component may be disposed in such a space. The at least one electronic component may include a PCB . Without being limited thereto however the at least one electronic component may include an antenna device a sound device a power supply device a sensor device and the like in addition to the PCB .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the battery pack may supply power to the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure one surface of the battery pack may be close to the display module and the other surface may be close to the rear window so that when the battery pack swells during charge counterpart objects may be deformed or destroyed. In order to prevent this a space swelling gap may be provided between the battery pack and the counterpart objects e.g. the display module and the rear window so as to protect the counterpart objects. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the battery pack may be disposed in a form of being integrated with the electronic device . Without being limited thereto however when the rear window is implemented to be attachable to detachable from the electronic device the battery pack may be implemented to be attachable detachable.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the housing forms the exterior of the electronic device e.g. side surfaces including a metal bezel and may be coupled to the bracket so as to form an internal space. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a front window may be disposed on the front surface of the housing and a rear window may be disposed on the rear surface of the housing . Without being limited thereto however the rear surface of the housing may be variously implemented by molding a synthetic resin or by using a metal a composite of a metal and a synthetic resin and the like. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure an inter structure gap formed by the housing and the rear window may prevent the destruction of the rear window from the secondary impact by an internal structure when an external impact occurs such as the drop of the electronic device .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a wireless power transmission reception member may be disposed on the rear surface of the housing . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the wireless power transmission reception member mainly has a thin film form and is disposed by being attached to one surface of an internally mounted component or an area of the inner surface of the housing in particular to an area that is generally close to the rear window . The wireless power transmission reception member includes a structure that forms a contact with the PCB within the housing . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the wireless power transmission reception member may be embedded or attached as a component of the battery pack and the like or a part of the housing and may be provided in the form of being attached to both of a component and the housing .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the second adhesive member is a component that fixes the rear window to the housing and may be applied in a form similar to that of the first adhesive member described above.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the rear window may be applied in a form similar to that of the front window . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the front surface the surface exposed to the outside of the rear window may be formed in a curvature that is more inclined as going to both of the left and right ends. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the rear surface of the rear window may be formed in a planar surface to be attached to the hosing by the second adhesive member .

Referring to the bracket may be fixed to the housing . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the housing may be formed by injection molding a non metal member e.g. polycarbonate PC to the metal bezel . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display module may be fixed to the front surface of the bracket and the front window may be disposed on the display module . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the front window may be fixed by being attached to the bracket by the first adhesive member adjacent to an end of the housing . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the front window may be fixed by being attached to the bracket by the first adhesive member to correspond to the shape thereof on the end of the housing . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the front window may be fixed by being attached to the bracket by the first adhesive member while being supported by the end of the housing . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the front window may have a uniform thickness and may be formed in a shape having a certain curvature. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure all of the planar portion and the left and right bent portions of the front window may be formed to have a certain thickness.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the rear window may also be fixed to the housing by the second adhesive member . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the rear window may be formed to have a thickness that is reduced towards the left and right edges a shape which is formed in the 2.5D type .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure in the space between the bracket and the housing an electronic component such as the PCB may be accommodated and the battery pack may be disposed in parallel with the PCB to avoid the PCB .

Referring to according to an embodiment of the present disclosure opaque layers and may be disposed between the rear surface of the front window and the display module and between the housing and the rear surface of the rear window respectively so as to conceal the interior of the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the opaque layer disposed on the front window may be applied to the area e.g. the BM area excluding the display area. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the opaque layers and may be implemented through a process such as printing vapor deposition or painting or a subsidiary material such as a film type sheet may be additionally attached thereto. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the sheet may include various forms of patterns on one surface thereof which are formed through various processes such as ultraviolet UV molding printing and painting. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the sheet may be applied not only to the rear window but also to the front window . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the light transmittance of the window itself may be lowered by coloring the window glass itself or the aesthetics may be enhanced by applying various colors thereto. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure on the rear surface of the rear window one or more electronic components may be further disposed. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic components may include an input device such as a touch panel and a charge device such as a wireless charge module a communication module such as a near field communication NFC antenna or a display module may be additionally disposed.

Referring to each of the front window and the rear window has an outer edge portion and a single housing may be implemented to enclose the edge portions of the front and rear windows and . The housing may include a front opening portion and a rear opening portion and the front window and the rear window may be seated on the front and rear opening portions and respectively. The front window may have a shape that is implemented by bending a flat glass while applying heat pressure thereto and on a cross sectional view the tip end of the edge portion of the front window may be implemented in the form of being orthogonal to the surface of the window. The surface of the housing which is close to the tip end of the edge portion of the front window may be implemented in a shape that is parallel with the edge portion.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the tip end of the edge portion of the front window may be fabricated in various shapes through processing and corresponding to this the housing may have an assembly portion having a shape corresponding to the shape of the tip end. For example as illustrated in the tip end face may be processed to have a wedge shape in cross section of which the sides are parallel to the X axis and the Y axis respectively rather than a slope shape and the shape of a seat portion of the housing may be implemented to correspond to the processed wedge shape . In another example as illustrated in the tip end face may be processed to have a wedge shape in cross section of which the sides are parallel to the X axis and the Y axis respectively rather than a slope shape and a separate interface member may be added between the window and the housing . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the interface member may be first attached to the window so as to be easily assembled to the housing . The interface member may be in the form of enclosing the edge portion of the window so as to protect the edge portion of the window against external impact. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the interface member may be disposed along the outer periphery of the electronic device such that a part of the interface member may be exposed so as to improve the aesthetic feeling of the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the interface member may be formed of a plastic material such as PC or PC glass fiber GF . Alternatively the interface member may be formed of an elastic material such as rubber or urethane.

Referring to a housing may be manufactured through a process as follows. In the first operation a metal such as Al or Mg is provided and a portion to be filled by injection molding the housing and principal shapes may be processed. The processing may be performed through not only a computer numerical control CNC but also any other processing apparatus or method. In the second operation a processed insert portion may be inserted into a mold so as to progress injection molding . Areas required for injection molding in the housing such as a portion for antenna radiation and a portion for preventing electric shock may be manufactured through the insert molding. In the third operation it is possible to further process a shape additionally with a product which has been completely insert molded . In such an operation the metal and a molded product may be simultaneously processed and only one of the metal and the molded product may be processed. In such an operation the processing of operations in the corner portions of the housing see may progress. In the fourth operation the above described operations are completed and thus a complete product a housing that includes a metal member and a non metal member which are dually injection molded may be provided.

Referring to a housing in which a non metal member is insert molded to a metal member may be provided. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the edge portions of the housing the portions illustrated by dotted lines in the four corner portions in may be formed in a shape corresponding to the edge portions of the front window. More particularly each of the corner portions may be implemented in a curved shape which is changed in the directions of all the three axes of the X Y and Z axes. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when the housing is manufactured by injection molding the shapes of the corner portions and the inner portions of the corner portions may be easily manufactured according to the shapes of cavities of a manufactured mold. However when the housing is manufactured using a metal it is difficult to process the shape of each of the corner portions in the curved shape which is changed in the directions of all the three axes of the X Y and Z axes. More particularly the inner portion of each of the corner portions is a portion that is mated in shape with the bracket and may cause an assembly issue due to a processing deviation and the like when it is processed as a 3 dimensionally curved surface.

Accordingly when the inner portion of each corner of the housing is formed in a single planar shape in order to facilitate assembly and to reduce a processing deviation the processed area may be widened so that the processing time increases and a deformation may be caused in the product according to the processing. Accordingly by processing the inner portion of each corner portion stepwise such that the inner portion has a plurality of operation portions to it is possible to reduce the processing deviation that occurs during the processing of a 3 dimensionally curved surface and to improve the long processing time that is required to process an end surface the deformation of the product and the like. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a counterpart e.g. the bracket that is mated in shape with the housing may also be processed to have a plurality of corresponding operational portions to . Through this by making the corner portions of the housing and the corner portions of the bracket be strongly engaged with each other it is possible to prevent the electronic device from being distorted and by minimizing the deformation of the electronic device when an external impact is applied thereto it is possible to prevent the front and rear windows as well as the display module of the electronic device from being destroyed.

Referring to a wireless power transmission reception member may be disposed such that the wireless power transmission reception member faces the rear window over a portion of a housing and a battery pack corresponding to the battery pack of . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the wireless power transmission reception member may be a wireless charge module or a communication module such as an NFC magnetic security transmission MST antenna.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the housing may include an opening for accommodating the battery pack and one or more flanges and may be formed to protrude in the direction of the opening along the periphery of the opening . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the wireless power transmission reception member may be disposed in a manner of being attached to the flanges and and the surface of the battery pack .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the wireless power transmission reception member may formed in the form of a thin film and may include a plurality of coil type antenna radiators. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the plurality of antenna radiators may be wound in various manners e.g. in a spiral manner according to the characteristic of a corresponding communication module. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure each of the plurality of coil type antenna radiators may be disposed on the same plane in one film to be parallel with each other.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the wireless power transmission reception member may include a body portion to be disposed on the flanges and of the opening and a part of the surface of the battery pack a tail portion drawn out from the body portion and a contact portion drawn from the body portion . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the contact portion may be disposed to correspond to a plurality of contact terminals mounted on a PCB . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when the body portion is disposed to be flush with the front surface of the housing or above the front surface the contact portion may be disposed on the rear surface of the housing so as to be in physical contact with the contact terminals of the PCB that is positioned below the contact portion .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of electronic components and may be mounted in the housing and the tail portion may be disposed to accommodate the electronic components and . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the tail portion may include an inner space and the wireless power transmission reception member may be disposed such that the electronic components and are disposed within the inner space. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic components may include the above described rear camera various sensor modules and a flash device .

Referring to the wireless power transmission reception member may include the body portion applied to an opening of the housing the tail portion drawn out from the body portion to have a certain inner space and the contact portion drawn from the body portion to be in electrical and physical contact with contact terminals of the PCB.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the wireless power transmission reception member may be formed in a film type and may be disposed such that a plurality of coil type antenna radiators are disposed on the same plane to be spaced apart from each other. Each of the antenna radiators may be connected to the contact portion . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure in the body portion a coil type wireless charge antenna radiator for use in wireless power charge WPC may be wound in a spiral type around the central portion of the body portion . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure in the body portion a coil type antenna radiator for use in MST may be disposed to surround the coil type wireless charge antenna radiator . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a coil type antenna radiator for use in NFC may be disposed in a spiral type along the tail portion . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure each of the coil type antenna radiators may be disposed on the same plane of a film to be spaced apart from each other.

Referring to an electronic device which includes a display having a curved area as described above may not be equipped with physical key buttons on the side surfaces thereof as the left and right curvatures of the front and rear windows increase. In such a case a structure which is capable of implementing side key button functions in the left and right bent portions of the display area that occupies the side spaces of the electronic device may be required. In such a case in an A area in a corresponding function may be performed by an operation as illustrated in in addition to a touch function corresponding to a side key button function. Such a function may include a volume up down function a wake up sleep function a power ON OFF function a power supply cut off function and the like.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure such a finger touch recognition method enables recognition by a capacitive touch method similar to the display and may be implemented by separately mounting a pressure sensor on the rear surface of the window in an additional method. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure in order to allow the user to know a finger touch and a volume control operation related feedback transfer to the user may be performed using a vibration motor or a sound device.

Referring to each of front windows and is positioned on the front side of an electronic device so as to form the front surface. Each of the windows and may be formed of a transparent material so as to display a screen that is presented by a display module and may provide an input output window of various sensor modules.

Referring to the front window may include bent portions that are formed by bending an upper area and a lower area with reference to a display area . In such a case a display module corresponding to the front window may also be formed in the corresponding shape.

Referring to the front window may include bent portions formed by bending a left area a right area an upper area and a lower area with reference to the display area . In addition in such a case a display module corresponding to the front window may be disposed in the corresponding shape.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure each of the above described front windows and may be formed as a 3D type in which the thickness from the display area to the bent areas is uniform or may be formed in a 2.5D type in which the front surface of each of the front windows and has a curvature and the rear surface has a planar shape.

The configuration illustrated in is generally similar to the configuration illustrated in except for the configuration of the front window and the rear window. Accordingly descriptions of overlapping technical contents will be omitted.

Referring to according to various embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device may include a front surface that may be formed by a transparent window. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the front surface may include a display area . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the front surface may include a planar portion and a left bent portion and a right bent portion which are formed by bending left and right areas with reference to the planar portion respectively.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may include a rear surface which may also be formed by a transparent window. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the rear surface may include a planar portion and a left bent portion and a right bent portion which are formed by bending left and right areas with reference to the planar portion respectively.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the left and right bent portions and of the front surface and the left and right bent portions and of the rear surface may be formed such that the bent sizes thereof are equal to each other. Without being limited thereto however the left and right bent portions and of the front surface and the left and right bent portions and of the rear surface may be formed such that at least one of them has a different size. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the windows of the front surface and the rear surface may be formed in the above described 3D type or 2.5D type.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure it is possible to provide a portable electronic device that includes a transparent front glass cover that includes a planar surface that forms a front surface of the electronic device a planar rear glass cover that forms a rear surface of the electronic device a metal bezel that surrounds a space formed by the front glass cover and the rear glass cover and a flexible display device that is embedded in the space and exposed through the front glass cover.

The front glass cover includes a first curved surface that extends from a first side edge of the planar surface and a second curved surface that extends from a second side edge of the planar surface and is formed opposite to the first curved surface. The flexible display device includes a touch screen that extends along the first curved surface the planar surface and the second curved surface.

The metal bezel includes a first side surface that encloses an edge of the first curved surface a second side surface that encloses an edge of the second curved surface a third side surface that interconnects one end of the first side surface and one end of the second side surface and a fourth side surface that interconnects the other end of the first side surface and the other end of the second side surface.

The first side surface and the second side surface have a first height and the third side surface and the fourth side surface have a second height that is larger than the first height.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure in a corner where the first side surface and the third side surface are interconnected and in a corner where the first side surface and the fourth side surface are interconnected the height of the first side surface may gradually increase from the first height to the second height.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure in a corner where the second side surface and the third side surface are interconnected and in a corner where the second side surface and the fourth side surface are interconnected the height of the second side surface may gradually increase from the first height to the second height.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the portable electronic device may further include a communication receiver speaker that penetrates an opening that is formed through the front glass cover.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the portable electronic device may further include a processor and a memory within the space. The memory may store instructions that upon being executed cause the processor to display a first screen on a first area of the touch screen which is positioned on the planar surface a second screen which is differentiated from the first screen on a second area of the touch screen which is positioned on the first curved surface and a third screen which is differentiated from the first screen on a third area of the touch screen which is positioned on the second curved surface.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the flexible display device may include a single flexible OLED display that extends along the first curved surface the planar surface and the second curved surface.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the portable electronic device may further include a first non metal portion and a second non metal portion that are formed on the third side surface perpendicular to a longitudinal direction of the third side surface.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the portable electronic device may further include at least one of an opening on the third side surface between the first non metal portion and the second non metal portion a SIM tray that is removably inserted into the opening and an infrared IR device that is exposed on the third side surface.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the first non metal portion may be positioned close to the first side surface and the second non metal surface may be positioned close to the second side surface and the IR device may be positioned in a middle portion of the third side surface between the first non metal portion and the second non metal portion.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the portable electronic device may further include an opening that is formed on the third side surface between the first non metal portion or the second non metal portion and the IR device. The SIM tray may be removably inserted into the opening.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the portable electronic device may further include a third non metal portion and a fourth non metal portion that are formed on the fourth side surface perpendicular to a longitudinal direction of the fourth side surface.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the portable electronic device may further include at least one of an audio device insertion hole a connector opening and a speaker hole on the fourth side surface between the third non metal portion and the fourth non metal portion.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the third non metal portion may be positioned close to the first side surface and the fourth non metal portion may be positioned close to the second side surface. The connector opening may be positioned in a middle portion of the third side surface between the third non metal portion and the fourth non metal portion.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the audio device insertion hole may be positioned between the third non metal portion and the connector opening and the speaker hole is positioned between the fourth non metal portion and the connector opening.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the portable electronic device may further include at least one of an NFC antenna a wireless charge coil and a magnetic emulator antenna within the space close to the rear glass cover.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the portable electronic device may further include at least one opening and at least one sound control key on the first side surface or the second side surface the sound control key being configured to be pushed through the opening.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the portable electronic device may further include at least one opening and a power key on the second side surface or the first side surface which is opposite to the first side surface or the second side surface that includes the sound control key the power key being configured to be pushed through the opening.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the portable electronic device may further include a first touch area on a part of the first curved surface and or a second touch area on a part of the second curved surface. The electronic device may be configured to receive a volume control input through at least one of the first touch area and the second touch area.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the volume control input may include a gesture input on a part of the first touch area or the second touch area.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the portable electronic device may further include a first touch area on a part of the first curved surface and or a second touch area on a part of the second curved surface. The electronic device may be configured to receive a power ON or OFF input through at least one of the first touch area and the second touch area.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure it is possible to provide a portable electronic device that includes a transparent front glass cover that includes a first planar surface that forms a front surface of the electronic device a planar rear glass cover that includes a second planar surface that forms a rear surface of the electronic device a metal bezel that surrounds a space formed by the front glass cover and the rear glass cover and a flexible display device that is embedded in the space and exposed through the front glass cover.

The front glass cover includes a first curved surface that extends from a first side edge of the first planar surface and a second curved surface that extends from a second side edge of the first planar surface and is formed opposite to the first curved surface.

The rear glass cover includes a third curved surface that extends from a first side edge of the second planar surface and a fourth curved surface that extends from a second side edge of the second planar surface and is formed opposite to the third curved surface.

The flexible display device includes a touch screen that extends along the first curved surface the first planar surface and the second curved surface.

The metal bezel includes a first side surface that encloses edges of the first curved surface and the third curved surface a second side surface that encloses edges of the second curved surface and the fourth curved surface a third side surface that interconnects one end of the first side surface and one end of the second side surface and a fourth side surface that interconnects the other end of the first side surface and the other end of the second side surface.

The first side surface and the second side surface have a first height and the third side surface and the fourth side surface have a second height that is larger than the first height.

Referring to a battery pack includes a battery cell a power control module PCM unit disposed on a side area of the upper side of the battery cell and a connection terminal portion that is drawn out from the PCM unit and electrically connected to a PCB of an electronic device. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the PCM unit may be installed on a pouch terrace that is disposed on the upper portion of the battery cell . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the battery pack may be configured as a battery pack that is integrally embedded in the electronic device.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the PCM unit may perform functions of detecting when the voltage of the battery pack increases due to a charge voltage and a charge current that are input from the outside a battery voltage and cutting off and releasing the charge current such that the battery is not charged to a level that is equal to or higher than an over charge voltage set in a module. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the PCM unit may perform a function of detecting when the voltage of the battery is gradually discharged due to the current consumed to the outside the battery voltage and cutting off and releasing the discharge current such that the battery is not discharged to a level that is equal to or lower than an over discharge voltage set in the module. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the PCM unit may perform a function of cutting off and releasing a charge or discharge current such that the current is charged or discharged to a level that is equal to or higher than an over current set in the module due to an abnormal phenomenon of an electronic device or a charge device. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when plus and minus terminals are short circuited in the outside of the battery pack a current of about 20 times the capacity of the battery pack flows instantly. The PCM unit may perform functions of preventing an accident and protecting the battery pack by cutting off the current.

While a battery pack is disposed in parallel with a PCB in an electronic device for example disposed in parallel with the exterior of the battery pack a restriction may be imposed in arranging electronic components according to the mounting space of the battery pack by the PCM unit that is uniformly disposed on the upper portion of the battery pack. For example due to the shape of the rectangular battery pack the battery pack may occupy a large space in the entire length direction of the PCM unit. Accordingly it is necessary to make the arrangement of the PCM unit of the battery pack variable so as to maximize a space efficiency according to the mounting of the battery pack thereby contributing to the slimming of the electronic device.

Referring to the battery pack may be mounted in the housing of the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the PCM unit of the battery pack is formed to be biased to one side in the entire length direction and an electronic component may be disposed in the area where the PCM unit is not disposed. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the PCM unit may be disposed at a position where it is overlapped with the PCB of the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the PCM unit may be disposed at a position where it is overlapped with the PCB and to avoid the electronic component that is mounted on and protrude from the PCB . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic component may include a component that is mounded on and protrudes from the PCB such as a memory a processor various elements a camera device various sensor modules e.g. a heart rate monitor HRM sensor module a flash and the like.

Referring to the electronic device may include the battery pack mounted therein. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the battery cell of the battery pack may be mounted in parallel with the PCB of the electronic device to avoid the PCB . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the battery pack may be configured such that the PCM unit is drawn out by a certain length and may be disposed such that at least a part of the PCM unit is overlapped with the PCB .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the PCM unit may be disposed on the bottom of the PCB and various electronic components and may be disposed on the top of the PCB . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic component may be at least one of a memory a processor various elements a camera device various sensor modules and a flash device. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure by disposing the PCM unit to overlap with the PCB in the bottom area of the PCB that contributes to the thickness of the battery pack the window that includes the display and the bracket that supports the display may be at least partially accommodated.

Referring to in the entire thickness w of the battery pack the remaining thicknesses w and w except the thickness of the PCM unit may be used as mounting spaces for various electronic components and including the PCB of the electronic device.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure in the upper area of the PCM unit the PCB and electronic components and such as a memory a processor various elements a camera device various sensor module and a flash device which are mounted on the top of the PCB may be disposed. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure in the entire thickness w of the battery pack the upper thickness w except the thickness of the PCM unit may contribute to at least a part of a space in which the PCB and electronic components and such as a memory a processor various elements a camera device various sensor module and a flash device which are mounted on the top of the PCB may be applied. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure in the thickness w of the battery pack the lower thickness w except the thickness of the PCM unit may contribute to at least a part of a space in which an electronic component for the display and the bracket for supporting the display are applied.

Referring to when a sensor module and a flash device are arranged below a camera module as the electronic components the battery cell of the battery pack may be disposed in parallel with the PCB and the camera device mounted on the PCB . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the PCM unit of the battery pack may be disposed to overlap with the sensor module and the flash device which are mounted on the PCB . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the sensor module and the flash device may be mounted on the top of the PCB and the PCM unit of the battery pack may be disposed on the bottom of the PCB to overlap with the sensor module and the flash device . Accordingly as compared to an existing mounting structure in which the battery pack is disposed in parallel with the PCB it is possible to secure a component mounting space or to increase the capacity of the battery cell .

Referring to a battery cell of a battery pack may be mounted to avoid a PCB . For example the battery cell may be disposed at least on the same plane as the PCB . However a PCM unit which is disposed to be weighted to the upper side of the battery cell may be disposed to be at least partially overlapped with and to be electrically connected to the PCB . In addition on the PCB a socket device as an electronic component may be mounted around an area in which the PCM unit of the battery pack is disposed. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the socket device may accommodate a card type external device e.g. a SIM card a UIM card a card type memory and the like .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the PCM unit of the battery pack is disposed to overlap with the top portion of the PCB and the socket device is disposed in parallel with the PCM unit at a side of the PCM unit so that the wiring space shortage of the PCB which is caused due to the PCM unit of the battery pack can be addressed.

Referring to a pouch terrace having a certain width and length may be formed on the top of a battery pack . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a PCM unit may be disposed at one side of the pouch terrace and a connection terminal portion may be formed to be drawn out by a certain length so as to be electrically connected to a PCB at the other side of the pouch terrace . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the connection terminal portion may be disposed to be individually drawn out along the pouch terrace at a side of the pouch terrace rather than being directly drawn out from the PCM unit .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the PCM unit may be formed to have a relatively small height and disposed in parallel with the PCB and the connection terminal portion may be electrically connected to a side of the PCB to avoid the camera device . Accordingly the battery pack is disposed in a state where the connection terminal portion and the PCM unit are separated from the battery cell so that the volume of the PCM unit can be reduced so as to increase the capacity of the battery pack and the area of the PCB can be increased so as to secure a wiring space.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure there is provided a portable electronic device that may include a front glass cover that forms a front surface of the electronic device a rear cover that forms a rear surface of the electronic device a side surface unit that surrounds a space that is formed by the front glass cover and the rear cover a display module that is embedded in the space and includes a screen area exposed through the front glass cover a PCB that is disposed between the display module and the rear cover and includes an opening that is at least partially closed a battery that is installed within the opening and interposed between the display module and the rear cover and a PCM that is positioned between the PCB and the display module and is disposed close to one side of the battery when viewed from a position above the PCB.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the rear cover and the side surface unit may be formed integrally with each other.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the rear cover and the side surface unit may include the same material. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the material may be a metal.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include a camera module that is disposed close to the one side of the battery and one side of the PCM when viewed from a position above the PCB. The camera module includes a portion interposed between the display module and the rear cover. The camera module may include a lens that is exposed through the rear cover.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include a camera flash and or a biometric sensor which are disposed at the one side of the battery to at least partially overlap with the PCM when viewed from a position above the PCB and are positioned between the PCB and the rear cover.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the PCM and the camera module are positioned side by side at the one side of the battery when viewed from a position above the PCB and at least a part of the camera flash and or the biometric sensor and the PCM may be positioned at opposite sides of the PCB respectively when viewed from a cross section.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include a camera module that is formed through the PCB and disposed close to the one side of the battery when viewed from a position above the PCB and includes a lens exposed through the rear cover. The PCM may have an L shape that includes a first portion that is positioned between the camera module and the battery when viewed from a position above the PCB.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may include at least one physical key button that is disposed to be at least partially exposed to the outside. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the key button may be configured as a volume button that is disposed on one side of the electronic device and performs a volume up down function. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the key button may also be disposed on the other side of the electronic device and may perform a power ON OFF function a wake up sleep function and the like.

A method of assembling a key button according to the related art may include a method of assembling the key button from the outside of the electronic device and a method of assembling the key button from the inside of the electronic device.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the method of assembling the key button from the outside of the electronic device is a method in which an FPCB is attached to a main instrument e.g. the housing of the electronic device and the key button is fitted from the outside. In such a case it is advantageous in that since the key button and the FPCB can be assembled to one instrument the performances of the key button such as the click feeling and the life span of the key button can be performed prior to assembling the electronic device. However it is disadvantageous in that scratches may occur on the exterior of the electronic device when the button of the key button is assembled from the outside of the electronic device. In addition when the key button is assembled from the outside of the electronic device the key button may be separated to the outside of the electronic device since the locked amount of the key button is small.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the method of assembling the key button from the inside may include assembling the key button to the main instrument e.g. the housing of the electronic device first assembling the FPCB to the other instrument e.g. the bracket and assembling two instruments with each other. In such a case the key button and the FPCB are assembled to different instruments e.g. the housing and the bracket . Accordingly there is a disadvantage in that in order to test the performances of the key button it is necessary to assemble one preassembly e.g. the assembly of the housing and the bracket and when a defect occurs it is necessary to dissemble the preassembly again.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure it is possible to provide a key button assembly structure to address the above described problems. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure it is possible to provide a key button assembly structure that can be implemented such that a key performance test is enabled in a single product state while assembling the key from the inside of the electronic device.

Hereinafter a configuration of a key button according to an embodiment of the present disclosure will be described below.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the key top may be formed of at least one of a metal material and a synthetic resin material. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the key top is disposed to be partially exposed to the outside of the electronic device e.g. a side surface so that a corresponding function of the electronic device e.g. a volume up down function a wake up sleep function a power ON OFF function and the like may be performed by the user s pushing operation.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the key base may be fixed to the bottom of the key top . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the key base may serve as a locking member that allows the key top to be partially exposed from the electronic device while preventing the key top from being completely separated. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the key base may include a press portion that is formed on the bottom surface of the key base to protrude. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the press portion may be disposed so as to press a dome key e.g. a metal dome key see that is disposed on an FPCB see of a FPCB assembly see to be described later. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the key base may include support pieces that are formed to protrude on the opposite sides of the press portion respectively. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the support pieces may serve to prevent the key top from being excessively inserted when the key top is pressed and to support the press portion to smoothly press the dome key . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the key base may be formed of an elastic material. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the key base may be formed of at least one of rubber silicon and urethane.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the key top and the key base may be integrally formed as one member using a single material. Without being limited thereto however a member formed of an elastic resin material may be formed on the key top formed as a metallic member through insert molding.

Referring to the FPCB assembly may include a support plate and an FPCB supported by the support plate .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the FPCB may include a circuit body attached to the support plate and a connection terminal portion drawn out from the circuit body and connected to the PCB of the electronic device. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure on the circuit body a dome key e.g. a metal dome key may be disposed. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the dome key may be disposed at a position corresponding to the press portion of the above described key base and may perform an electric switching function by being pressed by the press portion .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the support plate may include a plate body that supports the circuit body of the FPCB and elastic pieces that are bent to a certain shape at the opposite ends of the plate body . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the elastic pieces may have a U shape and may have an inwardly or outwardly biased elasticity. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the elastic pieces may have the U shape and may have the elasticity to maintain the shape. Accordingly when the elastic pieces are seated in elastic piece seating recess see of a housing to be described later the phenomenon in which the support plate is separated from the housing may be prevented in advance. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure each elastic piece may include at least one fixing protrusion that protrudes from the outer surface thereof. The fixing protrusion may be fixed by being seated in an opening formed in the elastic piece seating recess so as to support the fixing of the support plate . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the elastic pieces may be formed in various shapes such as a 1 shape a circular shape an oval shape and an S shape besides the U shape. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the plate body of the support plate and the circuit body of the FPCB may be attached to each other through a method of bonding by using a double sided tape and the like.

Referring to a housing e.g. the rear housing of the electronic device may be formed with a key top passage hole . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the key top passage hole may be formed in a size that allows the key top of the key button to pass therethrough. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the key top passage hole may be formed in a size that allows only the key top to pass therethrough and prevents the key base fixed to the key top from passing therethrough. Without being limited thereto however a part of the key top may protrude so as to form a separation prevention flange.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the key button may be lowered from the upper side of the housing in a direction indicated by the arrow as illustrated in and may be moved forward toward the key top passage hole as illustrated in . By such an operation the key button may be prevented from being completely separated from the key top passage hole of the housing by the key base and at the same time the key top may be disposed such that the key top is partially exposed to the outside of the housing through the key top passage hole .

Referring to while the key top of the key button is still partially passing through the key top passage hole of the housing the FPCB assembly may be mounted from the rear side in the direction indicated by the arrow. In such a case the elastic pieces which are formed on the opposite ends of the support plate of the FPCB assembly may be tightly seated in the elastic piece seating recess that is formed in the housing . This is because the elastic pieces are seated in the elastic piece seating recess while maintaining the outwardly biased elastic force. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure each elastic piece seating recess may be formed with an opening not illustrated and the fixing protrusions which are formed to protrude from the elastic pieces respectively may be seated in the openings respectively so as to support the support plate to be fixed to the housing . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the plate body of the support plate may include a fixing plate that is formed to extend orthogonally to the plate body . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when the support plate is fixed to the housing the fixing piece is seated in a fixing piece seating recess that is formed on the inner surface of the housing so that the support plate which is mounted on the housing can be prevented from moving left and right in advance.

Referring to the key button mounted on the housing may hold the key top in the state in which the key top is partially exposed to the outside of the housing and the key button may be supported by the support plate of the FPCB assembly behind the key button . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the press portion which is formed on the key base of the key button may maintain the state in which the press portion is in contact with the dome key of the circuit body that is supported by the plate body of the FPCB assembly . In such a case because the elastic pieces that are formed on the opposite ends of the support plate are fixed to the elastic piece seating recess formed in the housing the support plate is not moved back even if the key button is pressed and by pressing the press portion of the key base only the dome key which is disposed on the circuit body of the FPCB may be pressed to be capable of being switched.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure because the pressing operation of the key top is implemented only by the support plate of the FPCB assembly without any other instrument e.g. the bracket in the state where the key button is assembled inside the housing the performance test of the key button can be easily implemented.

Referring to the support plate of the FPCB assembly may be firmly fixed at the opposite ends thereof by the elastic pieces but may be moved left and right in the fixed state. Accordingly on the plate body of the support plate the fixing piece may be bent in the direction orthogonal to the plate body and when the support plate is fixed to the housing the fixing piece may also be seated in the fixing piece seating recess that is formed in the housing .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the fixing piece seating recess may be formed in the form of an opening that penetrates the bottom surface of the housing and when the fixing piece is applied to the fixing piece seating recess the fixing piece may be seated such that the surface of the fixing piece and the bottom surface of the housing are flush with each other. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the fixing piece is formed in a rectangular shape. Without being limited thereto however the fixing piece may be formed in various angled shapes so as to prevent the support plate from being moved left and right. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure one fixing piece is formed on the plate body of the support plate . However in the case where the plate body and a space of the housing which corresponds to the plate body are available a plurality of fixing pieces may be formed.

Referring to the above mentioned FPCB assembly has been illustrated and described above with reference to one key button an FPCB having one dome key applied to the key button and a support plate that supports the FPCB . illustrates one FPCB assembly having two dome keys and that simultaneously support two key buttons that are separately applied and hereinafter the FPCB assembly will be described. Accordingly the configuration of each of the two separately applied key buttons is the same as that of the key button illustrated in . Thus the detailed descriptions for the configuration of the key buttons will be omitted.

Referring to the FPCB assembly may include a support plate and an FPCB supported by the support plate .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the FPCB may include a circuit body attached to the support plate and a connection terminal portion drawn out from the circuit body and connected to the PCB of the electronic device. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure one pair of dome keys e.g. metal dome keys and may be disposed on the circuit body at a certain interval. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the one pair of dome keys and may be disposed at the positions corresponding to the press portions which are formed on the key bases of the individual key buttons respectively and may be physically operated by pressing the press portions so as to perform an electric switching function.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the support plate may include a plate body that supports the circuit body of the FPCB and elastic pieces that are bent in a certain shape on the opposite ends of the plate body respectively. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the elastic pieces may have a U shape and may have elasticity so that the leg portions of the U are biased to the outside in relation to each other. Accordingly when the elastic pieces are seated in an elastic piece seating recess see in a housing to be described later see it is possible to prevent the support plate from being separated from the housing in advance. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure each elastic piece may include at least one fixing protrusion that protrudes from the outer surface thereof and the fixing protrusion may be fixedly seated in an opening formed in the elastic piece seating recess so as to assist the fixing of the support plate . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the elastic pieces may be formed in various shapes that may exert elasticity such as a shape a circular shape an oval shape and an S shape besides the U shape by bending. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the plate body of the support plate and the circuit body of the FPCB may be attached to each other through a method of bonding a double sided tape and the like.

Referring to in a housing e.g. a rear housing of the electronic device one pair of key top passage holes and may be formed at a certain interval. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the one pair of key top passage holes and may be formed to have a size that allows the key tops of the key buttons to pass through the key top passage holes and respectively. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the key top passage holes and may be formed to have a size that allows only the key tops to pass through the key top passage holes and respectively and to prevent the key bases fixed to the key tops from passing the key top passage holes and . Without being limited thereto however a part of each key top is formed to protrude so as to form a separation prevention flange.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the key buttons may be lowered from the upper side of the housing in the direction indicated by an arrow as illustrated in and may be moved forward toward the key top passage holes and respectively as illustrated in . Through such an operation the key buttons may be prevented from being completely separated from the key top passage holes of the housing by the key bases respectively and at the same time may be disposed such that the key tops are partially expose to the outside of the housing through the key top passage holes and respectively.

Referring to in the state where the key tops of the one pair of key buttons partially pass through the key top passage holes and of the housing respectively the FPCB assembly may be mounted in the direction indicated by an arrow on the rear side of the key tops . In such a case the elastic pieces formed on the opposite ends of the support plate of the FPCB assembly may be tightly seated in the elastic piece seating recess formed in the housing . This is because the elastic pieces are seated in the elastic piece seating recess while maintaining an outwardly biased elasticity. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the elastic piece seating recess may be formed with openings not illustrated and the fixing protrusions which are formed to protrude from the elastic pieces respectively may be seated in the openings respectively so as to assist the support plate to be fixed to the housing . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a plate support piece may be formed to protrude inside the housing so that the plate support piece can support the rear side of the plate body of the support plate as being mounted. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the plate support piece may prevent the support plate itself from being elastically moved backward in advance when the relatively long support plate is pressed by the key buttons . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the plate support piece is preferably disposed between the one pair of key top passage holes and and a plurality of plate support pieces may be formed if a forming space is available.

Referring to the one pair of key buttons mounted in the housing may be maintained in the state where each of the key tops of the key buttons is partially exposed to the outside of the housing and the key buttons may be supported by the support plate of the FPCB assembly from the rear side thereof. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the press portions which are respectively formed on the key bases of the key buttons may be maintained in the state of being respectively in contact with the dome keys and of the circuit body that is supported by the plate body of the FPCB assembly . In such a case because the elastic pieces formed on the opposite ends of the support plate are fixed to the elastic piece seating recess formed in the housing the support plate is not moved backward even if the key buttons are pressed and only the dome keys and disposed on the circuit body of the FPCB can be physically switched by pressing the press portions of the key bases .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure because the pressing operation of the key tops can be implemented only by the support of the support plate of the FPCB assembly without any other separate instrument e.g. the bracket in the state where the key buttons are assembled in the inside of the housing the performance test of the key buttons can be easily implemented.

Referring to the support plate of the FPCB assembly may be rigidly fixed by the elastic pieces that are formed on the opposite ends thereof. However because two key buttons are accommodated the support plate can be moved backward by pressing the key buttons . Accordingly protrusion operations may be formed to extend at a certain interval on the plate body of the support plate and the protrusion operations may be inserted into protrusion operation insertion recess formed in the bottom of the housing respectively. In such a case the protrusion operations of the support plate may be supported by contact operations respectively which are formed by the periphery of the protrusion operation insertion recess of the protrusion operation insertion recess which is formed in a manner of being perforated. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the protrusion operations of the support plate may be disposed such that they are supported at least not to protrude from the protrusion operation insertion recess of the housing after being inserted into the protrusion operation insertion recess of the housing .

Referring to the key buttons may be installed to the housing of the electronic device to partially protrude. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure in the state where the key tops of the key buttons are exposed to the outside of the housing the support plate of the FPCB assembly can be disposed to support the key buttons at the rear side of the key buttons . In such a state the press portions formed on the key bases of the key buttons maintain the state in which they are respectively in contact with the dome keys disposed on the FPCB of the FPCB assembly and the connection terminal portion of the FPCB may bypass to the rear side of the support plate so as to maintain the state in which the connection terminal portion of the FPCB is electrically connected to the PCB of the electronic device.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure because the key buttons and the FPCB assembly are disposed together in the housing which is one single product so that the key buttons can be assembled to the housing without assembling a separate structure e.g. a bracket and the like there is an advantageous effect in the performance test of the key buttons .

Referring to a key button may include a key top having a certain length and key bases that are disposed on the opposite ends of the key top respectively. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure each of the key bases may be disposed to correspond to the FPCB assembly that includes the FPCB on which one pair of dome keys and as in the configuration of and a press portion formed on each of the key bases may have a configuration that presses a corresponding one of the dome keys and of the FPCB assembly . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a key flange may be formed to extend outwardly from each key base . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the key flange may serve to restrain the key base to be locked when the key top passes through a key top passage hole see formed in the housing see .

Referring to the housing e.g. a rear housing of an electronic device may be formed with a key top passage hole . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the key top passage hole may be formed to have a size that allows the key top of the key button to pass therethrough. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the key top passage hole may be formed to have a size that allows only the key top to pass therethrough and prevent the key flanges formed on the key base from passing therethrough.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the key button may be lowered from the upper side of the housing in the direction indicated by the arrow as illustrated in and the key button may be moved forward toward the key top passage hole as illustrated in . By this operation the key button may be prevented from being completely separated from the key top passage hole of the housing by the key flanges and at the same time the key button may be disposed such that the key top is partially exposed to the outside of the housing through the key top passage hole . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the key button may have a shaped opened portion formed at the center thereof and a key button accommodation piece may be formed in the housing to protrude upwardly. Accordingly when the key button passes through the key top passage hole of the housing the key button accommodation piece is accommodated in the opened portion so that the key button can be easily assembled.

Referring to the FPCB assembly can be mounted in the direction indicated by the arrow at the rear side while maintaining the state in which the key top of the key button has partially passed through the key top passage hole of the housing . In such a case the elastic pieces formed on the opposite ends of the plate body of the support plate of the FPCB assembly may be tightly seated in the elastic piece seating recess that is formed in the housing . This is because the elastic pieces are seated in the elastic piece seating recesses while maintaining an outwardly biased elasticity.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure because the pressing operation of the key top is implemented only by the support of the support plate of the FPCB assembly without any other separate instrument e.g. a bracket in the state where the key button is assembled in the inside of the housing the performance test of the key button can be easily implemented.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure it is possible to provide a portable electronic device that includes a front glass cover that forms a front surface of the electronic device a rear cover that forms a rear surface of the electronic device a bezel that surrounds a space formed by the front cover and the rear cover and includes a first portion that includes an opening a display device that is embedded in the space and includes a screen area that is exposed through the front cover and a plate that includes a planar surface that is parallel with the front cover within the space and includes a first protrusion and a second protrusion that are disposed close to the opening and are spaced apart from each other.

The first protrusion and the second protrusion are disposed to provide a passage that leads to the opening.

The electronic device further includes a key that has a size and a shape that enable the key to pass through the passage and the opening and is inserted into the passage and the opening to be movable in a first direction a first member elongated member that is attached to or integrally formed with a surface of the key opposite to the surface of the key which is exposed to the outside of the electronic device so as to prevent the key from being pulled out to the outside and a second member including within the space a central portion that extends in a second direction perpendicular to the first direction a first elastic end portion that extends from one end of the central portion and is disposed between the first portion and the first protrusion and a second elastic end portion that extends from the other end of the central portion and is disposed between the first portion and the second protrusion.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the first protrusion and the second protrusion may not be in contact with the first portion.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure at least one of the first end portion and the second end portion may have a U shape.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include an electric component that is inserted into a gap between the first member and the central portion and detects the movement of the key and at least one wire that extends from the component.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the plate may be integrally formed with the bezel.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the rear cover and the side surface portion may be integrally formed with each other.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the rear cover and the side surface portion may include the same material.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure it is possible to provide a portable electronic device that includes a front glass cover that forms a front surface of the electronic device a rear cover that forms a rear surface of the electronic device a bezel that surrounds a space formed by the front cover and the rear cover and includes a first portion that includes a first opening and a second opening a display device that is embedded in the space and includes a screen area that is exposed through the front cover and a plate that includes a planar surface that is parallel with the front cover within the space and includes a first protrusion a second protrusion and a third protrusion which are disposed close to the opening and are spaced apart from each other. The second protrusion is interposed between the first protrusion and the third protrusion.

The first protrusion and the second protrusion are disposed to provide a first passage that leads to the first opening without being in contact with the first portion.

The second protrusion and the third protrusion are disposed to provide a second passage that leads to the second opening without being in contact with the first portion.

The electronic device further includes a first key that has a size and a shape that enable the first key to pass through the first passage and the first opening and is inserted into the first passage and the first opening to be movable in a first direction a second key that has a size and a shape which enable the second key to pass through the second passage and the second opening and is inserted into the second passage and the second opening to be movable in the first direction a first key member elongated member that is attached to or integrally formed with a surface of the first key opposite to the surface of the first key which is exposed to the outside of the electronic device so as to prevent the first key from being pulled out to the outside a second key member elongated member that is attached to or integrally formed with a surface of the second key opposite to the surface of the second key which is exposed to the outside of the electronic device so as to prevent the second key from being pulled out to the outside and a second member that includes within the space a central portion that extends in a second direction perpendicular to the first direction a first elastic end portion that extends from one end of the central portion and is disposed between the first portion and the first protrusion and a second elastic end portion that extends from the other end of the central portion and is disposed between the first portion and the third protrusion.

The first key member is inserted into a gap between the first key and the central portion and the second key member is inserted into a gap between the second key and the central portion.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure it is possible to provide a method of manufacturing an electronic device that includes A an operation of providing a bezel that surrounds an inner mounting space of the electronic device and a plate that is connected with the bezel in which the bezel includes a first portion that includes an opening formed through a portion of the bezel the plate that includes a planar surface that is parallel with the front cover within the space and includes a first protrusion and a second protrusion that are disposed close to the opening and are spaced apart from each other the first protrusion and the second protrusion being configured to form a passage that leads to the opening without being in contact with the first portion B an operation of inserting a key through the passage and the opening such that at least a part of the key is exposed to the outside of the electronic device C an operation of preventing the key from being pulled out to the outside by using a first member elongated member that is attached to or integrally formed with a surface of the key opposite to the surface of the key which is exposed to the outside of the electronic device and includes one end portion that extends in a first direction parallel to the longitudinal direction of the first portion and the other end portion that extends in the first direction and is formed at the opposite side to the one end portion so as to prevent the key from being pulled out to the outside and D an operation of inserting a second member including within the space a central portion that extends in the first direction a first end portion that extends in the first direction and is disposed between the first portion and the first protrusion and a second end portion that extends in the first direction and is disposed between the first portion and the second protrusion.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the method may further include an operation of providing a rear cover that forms the rear surface of the electronic device.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the method may further include an operation of providing a front glass cover that forms the front surface of the electronic device.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may include a home key button on the front surface. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the home key button facilitates an efficient operation of the electronic device using fingerprint recognition by mounting a fingerprint recognition sensor on the outer surface of the home key button in addition to a wake up function and a return to home screen function of the electronic device.

In general when the fingerprint recognition sensor is provided in the home key button the fingerprint recognition sensor may be mounted on an FPCB that passes through the home key button and the FPCB may have a configuration that is electrically connected with a PCB of the electronic device along the lower side of the home key button. In such a case because the FPCB is off centered to one side of the home key button to bypass to the lower side of the home key button there was an issue in that when a portion of the home key button through which the FPCB passes is pressed the click feeling becomes weighty and when a portion of the home key button through which the FPCB does not pass is pressed the click feeling becomes lighter.

An embodiment of the present disclosure may provide a home key button for addressing the above described issues. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the various embodiments of the present disclosure may always provide a constant click feeling even when any portion of the home key button is pressed.

Referring to a home key button may include an FPCB a fingerprint recognition sensor that is disposed above and connected with the FPCB and a support plate including an actuator see that is disposed below the FPCB so as to press a dome key positioned below the actuator when the home key button is pressed. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the home key button may further include a decoration member that is engaged with the support plate on which the FPCB is disposed.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the decoration member may include a sensor exposing port at the center thereof and may be engaged with the support plate such that the fingerprint recognition sensor is exposed. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the decoration member may be formed of a metal material. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the decoration member may be formed by plating chrome on a synthetic resin material. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when the decoration member is mounted on the front surface of the electronic device at least a part of the periphery of the front surface is exposed to the outside so that the decoration member can not only give prominence to the home key button on the electronic device but can also contribute to the configuration of the beautiful exterior of the electronic device. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the decoration member may serve to prevent the home key button from being completely separated to the outside by being caught to the inner surface of the housing of the electronic device.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the FPCB may include a sensor mounting unit that accommodates the fingerprint recognition sensor and is electrically connected to the fingerprint recognition sensor a diffraction unit that is formed to extend from the sensor mounting unit and is attached to the bottom surface of the support plate bypassing a molded portion the diffraction unit including a through hole and a connecting portion that is formed to extend from the diffraction unit and may be electrically connected to the PCB avoiding the display of the electronic device. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the connecting portion may further include a position fixing hole into which a protrusion formed in the housing of the electronic device may be inserted so as to fix the position of the home key button when the home key button is applied to the electronic device. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure an end portion of the connecting portion may further include a connecting terminal that is connected with the PCB.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the support plate may be formed by a metal member. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the support plate may be formed of a material such as STS or aluminum. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the support plate may include the actuator on the bottom surface thereof which protrudes downwardly. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the actuator may serve as the press portion for physically pressing the dome key disposed below the actuator when the home key button is mounted in the electronic device.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure it has been described that the fingerprint recognition sensor is disposed on the home key button but the present disclosure is not limited thereto. For example various sensor modules e.g. an HRM sensor may be provided in place of the fingerprint recognition sensor or in addition to the fingerprint recognition sensor . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure various light emitting members such as an LED indicator may be applied in place of the fingerprint recognition sensor.

Referring to the FPCB and the fingerprint recognition sensor may be fixed to each other by being molded using a synthetic resin and electrically connected with each other. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure only the FPCB may be formed by being insert molded by a member of a synthetic resin material and the fingerprint recognition sensor may be disposed on the top thereof by being attached thereto. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a decoration member may be further stacked on the fingerprint recognition sensor . In such a case the decoration member may be fixed to a molding including the FPCB by a method of bonding by using a double sided tape and the like. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the top surface of the fingerprint recognition sensor which is exposed through the decoration member may be formed through a UV molding process.

Referring to the home key button may be disposed in the housing of the electronic device. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the home key button may be disposed such that the fingerprint recognition sensor is exposed to the upper side thereof through the opening of the decoration member and below the home key button the diffraction unit of the FPCB is disposed such that the diffraction unit is bent to the lower side of the home key button downward. This is to address the issues that when the FPCB is formed in a linear form the FPCB may overlap with the display and when the FPCB is linearly fixed the length of the portion of the FPCB which is fixed to the housing is reduced thereby deteriorating the click feeling. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure in the connecting portion of the FPCB one pair of position fixing holes and may be formed so that the protrusions formed in the housing can be inserted into the holes and so as to fix the position of the connecting portion .

Referring to the home key button may be installed to be restrained in such a manner that locking pieces of the decoration member are engaged with the housing of the electronic device. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the home key button may be disposed such that the fingerprint recognition sensor is exposed to the upper side of the decoration member and the sensor mounting unit of the FPCB which is insert molded to the molding portion may be disposed below the home key button . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the support plate may be disposed below the molding portion. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the diffraction unit of the FPCB which is drawn out from the molding portion may be disposed across the center of the bottom surface of the support plate . In such a case the diffraction unit of the FPCB may be tightly attached to the bottom surface of the support plate in a manner where the actuator of the support plate passes through the through hole . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the diffraction unit of the FPCB may be attached to the bottom surface of the support plate by a method of bonding by using a double sided tape and the like.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the home key button may be restrained without breaking away to the outside of the electronic device as the locking pieces which is formed to extend from the opposite ends of the decoration member are engaged with the housing . In such a case the deviation of upper and lower click feelings of the home key button can be reduced when the length of the locking pieces in the width direction of the home key button is lengthened.

Referring to the home key button may be disposed in the housing of the electronic device. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the FPCB may include a diffraction unit that bypasses the center of the support plate under the fingerprint recognition sensor and a connecting portion that extends from the diffraction unit toward the display and is bent again. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the connecting portion may be disposed to be spaced apart from each other by a certain interval so as to prevent a white point phenomenon of the LCD. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the bent area in the connecting portion which includes a first position fixing hole excludes a adhesion process excluding the use of a double sided tape so as to prevent the deterioration of the click feeling of the home key button in advance. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a second position fixing hole may be disposed along the bent portion of the connecting portion at a certain distance from the first position fixing hole . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure in an area of the connecting portion between the first position fixing hole and the second position fixing hole a hardware component for the home key button may be mounted.

Referring to in a home key button a fingerprint recognition sensor is disposed at the upper portion of a decoration member to be exposed and an FPCB may be staked at the lower side thereof. According to embodiment of the present disclosure the FPCB may include a sensor mounting unit that is molded to the decoration member and mounted together with the decoration member and a diffraction unit that is drawn out from the sensor mounting unit and extends to the bottom of the home key button thereby bypassing the home key button . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the diffraction unit may be disposed at the center of the bottom surface of the support plate which is mounted on the bottom of the home key button . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the FPCB may further include a connecting portion that is drawn out from the diffraction unit and is bent a plurality of times so as to avoid a display.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a switching dome may be disposed at the center of the diffraction unit of the FPCB . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the switching dome may be a metal dome. Accordingly when the home key button is pressed after having been installed to the electronic device the switching dome may be supported by a corresponding instrument e.g. a bracket of the electronic device so as to perform a switching operation.

Referring to a home key button according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may be applied to a wearable electronic device. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the wearable electronic device may be a wrist wearable electronic device that may be worn on a user s wrist. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the home key button applied to the wearable electronic device may be implemented in a waterproof structure.

Referring to a wearable electronic device may include a main body and one pair of straps that installed to extend from the opposite ends of the main body so as to be worn on the user s wrist. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a display may be disposed on the main body and the home key button according to the embodiment of the present disclosure may be disposed below the display . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the straps may have a plurality of length adjustment openings that are formed at certain intervals therein so as to guide the user to wear the main body to be suitable for the user s wrist.

Referring to the basic configuration of the home key button applied to the wearable electronic device may include a left right symmetric arrangement structure in which the FPCB passes through the center of the bottom surface of the home key button as described above. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure in the home key button the fingerprint recognition sensor may be disposed in the upper portion of the decoration member to be exposed and the FPCB may be stacked at the lower side thereof.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the FPCB may include a sensor mounting unit that is molded to the decoration member and mounted together with the decoration member and a diffraction unit that is drawn out from the sensor mounting unit and extends to the bottom side of the home key button bypassing the home key button. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the diffraction unit may be disposed at the center of the bottom surface of the support plate that is installed to the bottom of the home key button. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the FPCB may further include a connecting portion that is drawn out from the diffraction unit and is bent a plurality of times so as to avoid the display. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the diffraction unit may include a through hole that allows the actuator of the support plate to pass therethrough. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the diffraction unit may be fixed by being attached to the bottom surface of the support plate by a tape .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the home key button may include a waterproof structure because the home key button is disposed on the front surface of the main body that includes the display of the wearable electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure on the bottom portion of a window around the home key button a print film an OCA and a TSP may be sequentially stacked to be used as a part of the display.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a waterproof member formed of an elastic material may be disposed to completely enclose the support plate on the bottom portion of the home key button. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the waterproof member may be attached to the bottom surface of the window by one or more waterproof tapes and and a PC sheet . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the waterproof member may be formed of at least one of urethane silicon and rubber. Accordingly even if the home key button is pressed the elastic waterproof member may be pushed downwardly by the support plate while maintaining the waterproof function.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the housing of the electronic device may be manufactured through dual injection molding of dissimilar materials. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the housing may be formed by insert molding a non metal member to a metal member. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the non metal member may be formed of a synthetic resin member.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device that includes a housing including a metal portion in at least an area thereof may require an electric connection structure between a PCB disposed in the inner space of the electronic device and an antenna radiator that is generally disposed on the outer surface of the electronic device. Because the existing electric connection structures of an antenna carrier type a laser direct structuring LDS type and an FPCB type include a flexible antenna radiator so that they can be vertically connected to a pattern surface and in the case of a direct print antenna DPA directly printed on the housing because a vertical connection to a radiation pattern is not enabled an electric connection can be achieved by using a separate metallic press in pin.

However the structure using such a press in pin will additionally require a process of applying a separate structure and may cause deterioration of a radiation performance of the antenna when a deviation and an error occur according to the assembly. Further there are issues in that material costs increase due to added components and the press in pin cannot be applied to a complicated structure portion and a peripheral portion may be scratched or deformed in the press in process.

Further the FPCB and antenna carrier type of the related art is flexible so that a pattern is movable from a radiation surface of an antenna radiator to a PCB contact surface. An issue may occur in securing a space that is absolutely necessary for pattern movement.

In addition a screw structure of the related art may cause an electric shock issue. For example an inner current may be transferred to an outer metal housing through a screw so than the user may be exposed to electric shock. In order to prevent this a capacitor may be disposed around the screw as an electric safety device. However this may cause the unit cost to increase and a separate mounting space may be needed by adopting additional components.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure may provide a housing that is capable of addressing the above mentioned problems only by a process of manufacturing the housing using a metal member and a non metal member.

Various embodiments may implement conductive and insulative effects at a desired position only by the processes of insert molding and processing a non metal member to a metal member.

Referring to the housing may include a metal member and a non metal member that is insert molded to the metal member . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the metal member may include a metal bezel of the above described housing. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the metal member may include a metal structure that extends to at least a part of the front surface and or the rear surface of the electronic device from the metal bezel. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the metal member may include a metal filler that is independently formed in a space separate from the metal bezel.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the non metal member may include an upper member and a lower member . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the non metal member may include a plurality of insulation members that are applied to the metal member . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the insulation members may contribute to the insulation between the metal member and the PCB when fixing the housing and the bracket or fixing the PCB through screws.

Referring to a primary processing may be performed by extruding a plate type metal base material and a non metal member may be insert molded to the primarily processed metal base material. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure after the non metal member is insert molded to the metal member a processing process may be finally performed.

Referring to a primarily processed base material may be obtained by extruding a plate type metal base material . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the primarily processed base material may include a protruding portion and a plurality of recessed portions and that are formed to be relatively lower that the protruding portion . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a non metal member may be insert molded to at least a part of the plurality of recessed portions and and the protruding portion of the primarily processed metal base material . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when a portion indicated by a dotted line in the insert molded base material is processed the protruding portion may serve as a metal filler that is disposed independently from the primarily processed base material .

Referring to a metal member is illustrated after the insert molding and the secondary processing of the non metal member have been completed. Referring to a state is illustrated in which a non metal member e.g. a PC is insert molded to a metal bezel . More particularly illustrates a metal bezel and a unit bezel portion that is formed by a part of the metal bezel and cut off portions to serve as an antenna radiator.

Referring to the metal bezel may be disposed to surround the outer periphery of the electronic device and one pair of cut off portions may be formed at a certain interval at the lower side of the metal bezel . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure by insert molding the non metal member to the cut off portions the unit bezel portion may be formed independently from the metal bezel . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the unit bezel portion may serve as an antenna member. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a part of the unit bezel portion may form a contact portion that is drawn out to extend to the inside of the electronic device. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure by being formed independently from the metal bezel and the unit bezel portion the metal filler is operated as a metal island to be used as an electric connection member in the vertical direction between a DPA which is disposed in the housing and a PCB that is disposed inside the electronic device.

Referring to a metal filler may be disposed to be isolated by a non metal member that is insert molded to a metal member that is used as the metal bezel. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the metal member and the non metal member that is insert molded to the metal member may be contributed as a part of the housing of the electronic device. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure at least a part of the metal filler may be disposed to be exposed to the outer surface of the non metal member of the housing . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure at least a part of the metal filler may be disposed to be exposed to the inner surface of the non metal member of the housing .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure an antenna radiator may be disposed on and attached to the outer surface of the housing . Without being limited thereto however the antenna radiator may be formed on the outer surface of the housing by an LDS or DPA method. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the antenna radiator may be physically in contact with the metal filler exposed to the outer surface of the housing . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a PCB may be disposed within the electronic device and an electric connection member may be interposed between the PCB and the metal filler . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure as the electric connection member various members such as a C clip a thin wire cable and a flexible printed circuit may be used.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the antenna radiator DPA attached to the outer surface of the housing is electrically connected to the PCB through the metal filler and the electric connection member so that the antenna radiator may be used as an additional antenna radiator of the electronic device or an independent antenna radiator.

Referring to in a housing the non metal member may be formed on a metal member by insert molding. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure because the metal member and the non metal member are bonded to each other through bonding between dissimilar materials the metal member and the non metal member preferably have a separate and additional binding structure. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the metal member may include a metal bezel and a unit bezel that is separated from the metal bezel by cut off portions . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the metal bezel may include a flange that is formed to extend inwardly and at least one molding opening may be formed in the flange . Accordingly when the non metal member is insert molded to the metal member the non metal member may be insert molded to the molding opening of the metal member to serve as a non metal filler which may support the binding force between the metal member and the non metal member which are dissimilar materials.

Referring to a recess is formed on a metal member and a non metal member may be insert molded to the recess to be formed as a protrusion so as to support the bonding force between dissimilar materials.

Referring to the metal member and the non metal member are insert molded and a metal filler which is disposed to be spaced apart from the metal member causes a plurality of protrusions to protrude along the outer peripheral surface thereof to be molded as non metal members. Accordingly it is possible to prevent in advance the metal filler from being separated or moved in the vertical direction by a pressing force of an electric connection member which is installed on the PCB and has a certain elasticity.

Referring to the metal member and the non metal member are insert molded and the metal filler which is disposed to be spaced apart from the metal member is also processed by performing a process such as sanding or chemical etching on the outer surface of the metal filler during the extrusion process. Thus the surface frictional force can be increased so that the bonding force of the metal filler with the non metal can be increased. Accordingly it is possible to prevent in advance the metal filler from being separated or moved in the vertical direction by the pressing force of the electric connection member which is installed on the PCB and has certain elasticity.

Referring to a housing may be formed by insert molding a non metal member to a metal member . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure on the metal member one or more insulation members by the non metal member may be disposed. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure each insulation member may accommodate a screw and may be configured to prevent in advance an electric shock accident that is caused by electric power applied to the metal member through a structure e.g. a PCB within the electronic device.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the insulation member which is insert molded in the metal member may be formed in a hollow shape to have a depth that is at least the same as the entire height of the metal member . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the screw inserted into the insulation member may be fastened to another structure of the electronic device. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the other structure may be a PCB a bracket and the like. Accordingly the metal member is maintained in the state in which it is completely insulated from a structure within the electronic device by the insulation member so that an electric shock accident can be prevented in advance.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure it is possible to provide a portable electronic device that includes a front glass cover that forms a front surface of the electronic device a rear cover that forms a rear surface of the electronic device a bezel that surrounds a space formed by the front cover and the rear cover a display device that is embedded in the space and includes a screen area that is exposed through the front cover a metal structure that is positioned within the space and includes a first face that faces the front cover and a second face that faces the rear cover a non metal structure that is positioned within the space which partially overlaps with the metal structure and includes a first surface that faces the front cover and a second surface that faces the rear cover and a metal filler that extends through a part of the non metal structure from the first surface to the second surface of the non metal structure.

The metal filler is formed of a material that is the same as that of the metal structure and includes a first end portion adjacent to the first surface and a second end portion adjacent to the second surface. The first end portion and or the second end portion are aligned to form the same planes with a part of the first surface and or a part of the second surface respectively.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the first end portion may be aligned to form the same plane with the first surface and the second end portion may protrude from the second surface.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the first end portion may protrude from the first surface and the second end portion may be aligned to form the same plane with the second surface.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include an antenna pattern adjacent to the first surface or the second surface and the antenna pattern may be electrically connected with the metal filler.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include a communication circuit within the space and the communication circuit may be electrically connected to the antenna pattern through the metal filler.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include a flexible conductive structure that forms an electric connection at the first end portion or the second end portion.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include a PCB within the space and the PCB may be disposed to be electrically in contact with the flexible conductive structure.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the PCB may be positioned between the front cover and the non metal structure the flexible conductive structure may be positioned between the PCB and the first end portion of the metal filler and the electronic device may further include an antenna pattern that is positioned between the rear cover and the non metal structure and is electrically in contact with the second end portion of the metal filler.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the bezel may be formed of a metal that is the same as that of the metal structure and may be integrally formed with at least a part of the metal structure.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure at least a part of the bezel may form a part of an antenna of the electronic device.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure it is possible to provide a portable electronic device that includes a front glass cover that forms a front surface of the electronic device a rear cover that forms a rear surface of the electronic device a bezel that surrounds a space that is formed by the front cover and the rear cover a display device that is embedded within the space and includes a screen area that is exposed through the front cover a metal structure that is positioned within the space and includes a first face that faces the front cover and a second face that facing the rear cover a non metal structure that is positioned within the space partially overlaps with the metal structure and includes a first surface that faces the front cover and a second surface that faces the rear cover and a non metal filler that extends from the first face of the metal structure to the second face through a part of the metal structure. The non metal filler is formed of a material that is the same as that of the non metal structure and includes a first end portion adjacent to the first face of the metal structure and a second end portion adjacent to the second face of the metal structure. The first end portion and or the second end portion are aligned with a part of the first face and or a part of the second face so as to form the same planes respectively.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the non metal filler may further include a through hole and a fastener that is inserted into the through hole.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure it is possible to provide a method of manufacturing an electronic device. The method includes an operation of manufacturing a structure that includes a bezel that forms at least a part of a side surface to surround a space formed by a front cover and a rear cover of the electronic device and a metal structure and a non metal structure that are connected with the bezel. The operation of manufacturing the structure includes an operation of extruding a metal plate an operation of forming at least a part of the metal structure on the extruded metal plate in which the metal structure includes at least one protruding portion an operation of forming at least a part of the non metal structure by insert molding the metal plate so as to form at least a part of the non metal structure in which the non metal structure encloses at least a part of the protruding portion and an operation of simultaneously cutting at least a part of the metal structure and a part of the non metal structure and aligning one face of the protruding portion and a part of the surface of the non metal structure to form the same plane.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the method may further include an operation of installing the rear cover that forms the rear surface of the electronic device.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the method may further include an operation of installing the front glass cover that forms the front surface of the electronic device.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure because the electronic device is capable of providing information that may be simultaneously output in various direction through a display that has a curved area and through this is capable of intuitionally transferring the information and improving the convenience of use.

Referring to a configuration of election device is provided. The electronic device may entirely or partially constitute the electronic device of the device of . Electronic device includes at least one AP a communication module a SIM card a memory a sensor module an input device a display an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and a motor .

The AP controls a plurality of hardware or software elements connected to the AP by driving an operating system or an application program. The AP processes a variety of data including multimedia data and performs arithmetic operations. The AP may be implemented for example with a system on chip SoC . The AP may further include a graphics processing unit GPU .

The communication module e.g. the communication interface performs data transmission reception in communication between other electronic devices e.g. the second external electronic device or the server connected with the electronic device through a network. The communication module includes a cellular module a Wi Fi module a Bluetooth BT module a GPS module an NFC module and a radio frequency RF module .

The cellular module provides a voice call a video call a text service an internet service and the like through a communication network e.g. LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro and GSM and the like . In addition the cellular module identifies and authenticates the electronic device within the communication network by using a SIM card . The cellular module may perform at least some of functions that can be provided by the AP . For example the cellular module may perform at least some of multimedia control functions.

The cellular module includes a CP. Further the cellular module may be implemented for example with an SoC. Although elements such as the cellular module e.g. the CP the memory and the power management module are illustrated as separate elements with respect to the AP in the AP may also be implemented such that at least one part e.g. the cellular module of the aforementioned elements is included in the AP .

The AP or the cellular module e.g. the CP loads an instruction or data which is received from each non volatile memory connected thereto or at least one of different elements to a volatile memory and processes the instruction or data. In addition the AP or the cellular module stores data which is received from at least one of different elements or generated by at least one of different elements into the non volatile memory.

Each of the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module includes a processor for processing data transmitted received through a corresponding module. Although the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module are illustrated in as separate blocks according to an embodiment of the present disclosure at least some e.g. two or more of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be included in one integrated chip IC or IC package. For example at least some of processors corresponding to the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module e.g. a communication processor corresponding to the cellular module and a Wi Fi processor corresponding to the Wi Fi module may be implemented with an SoC.

The RF module transmits receives data for example an RF signal. The RF module may include for example a transceiver a power amp module PAM a frequency filter a low noise amplifier LNA and the like. In addition the RF module may further include a component for transmitting receiving a radio wave on a free space in wireless communication for example a conductor a conducting wire and the like. Although it is illustrated in that the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module share one RF module according to an embodiment of the present disclosure at least one of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module the NFC module may transmit receive an RF signal via a separate RF module.

The SIM card is a card which is inserted into a slot formed at a specific location of the electronic device . The SIM card includes unique identification information e.g. an integrated circuit card identifier ICCID or subscriber information e.g. an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI .

The internal memory may include for example at least one of a volatile memory e.g. a dynamic random access memory DRAM a static RANI SRAM a synchronous DRAM SDRAM and the like or a non volatile memory e.g. a one time programmable read only memory OTPROM a PROM an erasable and programmable ROM EPROM an electrically erasable and programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a NAND flash memory a NOR flash memory and the like . The internal memory may be a solid state drive SSD .

The external memory may include a flash drive and may further include for example compact flash CF secure digital SD micro SD mini SD extreme Digital xD memory stick and the like. The external memory may be operatively coupled to the electronic device via various interfaces.

The sensor module measures a physical quantity or detects an operation state of the electronic device and converts the measured or detected information into an electric signal. The sensor module includes for example at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B a barometric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor H e.g. a red green blue RGB sensor a bio sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illumination sensor K and a UV sensor M. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may include for example an E node sensor an electromyography EMG sensor an electroencephalogram EEG sensor an electrocardiogram ECG sensor a fingerprint sensor and the like. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling at least one or more sensors included therein.

The touch panel recognizes a touch input for example by using at least one of an electrostatic type a pressure sensitive type and an ultrasonic type. The touch panel may further include a control circuit. In case of the electrostatic type of touch panel not only is physical contact recognition possible but proximity recognition is also possible. The touch penal may further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel provides the user with a tactile reaction.

The digital pen sensor may be implemented for example by using the same or similar method of receiving a touch input of the user or by using an additional sheet for recognition.

The ultrasonic input unit is a device by which the electronic device detects a sound wave through a microphone by using a pen which generates an ultrasonic signal and is capable of radio recognition.

The electronic device may use the communication module to receive a user input from an external device e.g. a computer or a server connected thereto.

The panel may be for example an LCD an AM OLED and the like. The panel may be implemented for example in a flexible transparent or wearable manner. The panel may be constructed as one module with the touch panel .

The projector displays an image by projecting a light beam onto a screen. The screen may be located inside or outside the electronic device .

The display may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram or the projector .

The interface includes for example an HDMI a USB an optical communication interface or a D subminiature D sub . The interface may be included for example in the communication interface of . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include for example Mobile high definition link MHL not shown SD multi media card MMC or infrared data association IrDA .

The audio module bilaterally converts a sound and electric signal. At least some elements of the audio module may be included in the input output interface of . The audio module converts sound information which is input or output through a speaker a receiver an earphone the microphone and the like.

The camera module is a device for image and video capturing and may include one or more image sensors e.g. a front sensor or a rear sensor a lens an image signal processor ISP not shown or a flash not shown e.g. an LED or a xenon lamp .

The power management module manages power of the electronic device . The power management module may include a power management IC PMIC a charger IC or a battery gauge.

The PMIC may be placed inside an IC or SoC semiconductor. Charging is classified into wired charging and wireless charging. The charger IC charges a battery and prevents an over voltage or over current flow from a charger. The charger IC includes a charger IC for at least one of the wired charging and the wireless charging.

The wireless charging may be classified for example into a magnetic resonance type a magnetic induction type and an electromagnetic type. An additional circuit for the wireless charging for example a coil loop a resonant circuit a rectifier and the like may be added.

The battery gauge measures for example a residual quantity of the battery and a voltage current and temperature during charging. The battery stores or generates electricity and supplies power to the electronic device by using the stored or generated electricity. The battery may include a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator indicates a specific state for example a booting state a message state a charging state and the like of the electronic device or a part thereof e.g. the AP .

The electronic device includes a processing unit e.g. a GPU for supporting mobile TV. The processing unit for supporting mobile TV processes media data according to a protocol of for example digital multimedia broadcasting DMB digital video broadcasting DVB media flow and the like.

Each of the aforementioned elements of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may consist of one or more components and names thereof may vary depending on a type of electronic device. The electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the aforementioned elements. Some of the elements may be omitted or additional other elements may be further included. In addition some of the elements of the electronic device may be combined and constructed as one entity so as to equally perform functions of corresponding elements before combination.

The term module used herein may imply a unit including one of hardware software and firmware or a combination of them. The term module may be interchangeably used with terms such as unit logic logical block component circuit and the like. The module may be a minimum unit of an integrally constituted component or may be a part thereof. The module may be a minimum unit for performing one or more functions or may be a part thereof. The module may be mechanically or electrically implemented. For example the module of the present disclosure includes at least one of an application specific IC ASIC chip a field programmable gate arrays FPGAs and a programmable logic device which are known or will be developed and which perform certain operations.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure at least some parts of a device e.g. modules or functions thereof or method e.g. operations may be implemented with an instruction stored in a computer readable storage media for example. The instruction may be executed by one or more processors e.g. the processor to perform a function corresponding to the instruction. The computer readable storage media may be for example the memory . At least some parts of the programming module may be implemented e.g. executed for example by the processor . At least some parts of the programming module may include modules programs routines sets of instructions processes and the like for performing one or more functions.

Certain aspects of the present disclosure can also be embodied as computer readable code on a non transitory computer readable recording medium. A non transitory computer readable recording medium is any data storage device that can store data which can be thereafter read by a computer system. Examples of the non transitory computer readable recording medium include a Read Only Memory ROM a Random Access Memory RAM Compact Disc ROMs CD ROMs magnetic tapes floppy disks and optical data storage devices. The non transitory computer readable recording medium can also be distributed over network coupled computer systems so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion. In addition functional programs code and code segments for accomplishing the present disclosure can be easily construed by programmers skilled in the art to which the present disclosure pertains.

At this point it should be noted that the various embodiments of the present disclosure as described above typically involve the processing of input data and the generation of output data to some extent. This input data processing and output data generation may be implemented in hardware or software in combination with hardware. For example specific electronic components may be employed in a mobile device or similar or related circuitry for implementing the functions associated with the various embodiments of the present disclosure as described above. Alternatively one or more processors operating in accordance with stored instructions may implement the functions associated with the various embodiments of the present disclosure as described above. If such is the case it is within the scope of the present disclosure that such instructions may be stored on one or more non transitory processor readable mediums. Examples of the processor readable mediums include a ROM a RAM CD ROMs magnetic tapes floppy disks and optical data storage devices. The processor readable mediums can also be distributed over network coupled computer systems so that the instructions are stored and executed in a distributed fashion. In addition functional computer programs instructions and instruction segments for accomplishing the present disclosure can be easily construed by programmers skilled in the art to which the present disclosure pertains.

The module or programming module according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may further include at least one or more elements among the aforementioned elements may omit some of them or may further include additional elements. Operations performed by a module programming module or other elements may be executed in a sequential parallel repetitive or heuristic manner. In addition some of the operations may be executed in a different order or may be omitted or other operations may be added.

While the present disclosure has been shown and described with reference to various embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

