---

title: Codeless QR code
abstract: A service provider receives, from a user, picture information captured by a user device from a picture mark associated with a product or service of a merchant. It determines a matching picture image by comparing the picture information with picture images in a server, previously registered by the merchant. It also determines, out of attributes previously registered by the merchant, a matching attribute set uniquely associated with the matching picture image. The attributes may be web links, mobile APPs, or any media files that the merchant desires to communicate to users about its products or services. The service provider then communicates to the user the matching attribute set to be loaded on the user device and direct the user to the web links, mobile APPs, or media files that the merchant predetermined.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09547786&OS=09547786&RS=09547786
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09547786
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160711
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 961 759 filed Dec. 7 2015 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 595 128 filed Aug. 27 2012 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 9 208 397 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present invention generally relates to two dimensional codes and more particularly to codes captured on computing devices.

QR Code abbreviated from Quick Response Code is the trademark for a type of matrix barcode or two dimensional code first designed for the automotive industry. More recently QR codes have become popular outside the industry due to its fast readability and large storage capacity compared to standard UPC barcodes. A QR code consists of black modules square dots arranged in a square pattern on a white background and is detected as a 2 dimensional digital image by a semiconductor image sensor and is then digitally analyzed by a programmed processor.

QR codes have in recent years become common in consumer advertising and packaging due to wide dissemination of smart phones having a barcode reader or a scanner. As a result the QR code has become a focus of advertising strategy since it provides quick and effortless access to the brand s website item or service.

Despite all the popularity and success QR codes have been enjoying these days one disadvantage or shortcoming is their unattractive appearance. Except for some consumers who might see a geometrical beauty in them to most consumers the monotonous all look alike two dimensional array of black dots in QR codes is simply a turn off and non inspiring as they convey no impression memory or association with the product or service they are used with.

Therefore a need exists to provide merchants a system or way as a substitute for conventional QR codes to communicate to consumers the same kind of information or benefits as the QR codes do with a more pleasing or personalized appearance of such a code.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

In one embodiment a picture mark in the present disclosure is a picture or image associated with a particular product or service of a merchant to be shown to consumers. The merchant could be a manufacturer distributor retailer or service provider. In a physical store the picture mark may be directly printed on an outer surface of a shelved product or printed on a paper or plastic label which may be in turn attached to the product or otherwise displayed close to the product such as at an adjacent shelf or catalogue hanging. In an online site of a merchant the picture mark may be next to a picture or description of particular product or service on a screen of a computer or mobile device. The picture marks in different embodiments provide similar functions that QR codes do in the current market but have several advantages over them.

QR codes consist of square dots arranged in a square pattern on a white background to form a two dimensional geometrical design. As with common one dimensional bar codes they are not connected to any images of real things found in life and thus aesthetically not very attractive to most consumers. But picture marks described herein whether drawn or photographed depict images that people commonly see find or are familiar with in their everyday lives such as cars furniture people plants animals houses machines and etc. An ordinary person seeing the picture mark can readily recognize or identify what the picture or image is representing depicting meaning or referring to. In some cases the picture or image may be identical or similar to the logos emblems or other graphic marks the merchants already have been using for their products or services. Unlike the common QR codes the picture marks are aesthetically attractive and may convey meanings or impressions to the consumers as the merchants wish. The picture marks may appear in magazines on signs on buses on business cards or on almost any object about which users might need information as well as shown on electronic media.

In QR codes information is coded according to well known standards. So QR codes can be captured or scanned by scanners on the mobile devices and the may be readily decoded by various kinds of commercially available local applications in the mobile devices. Once decoded QR codes may directly link consumers on their user devices to particular websites of merchants for advertisement promotion or sales purposes. Or they may be encoded with any information that merchants want to communicate to consumers subject to a limitation in size and capacity of a given QR code which may be conveyed on the user devices in the form of texts images sounds or clips.

Unlike QR codes the picture marks are not coded in itself in such a way as to be decoded by a standalone application in the user device. With the help of a service or payment provider such as PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. the picture marks can perform almost exactly the same or similar functions as the current QR codes. For that a merchant who has an account with the payment provider may register picture images corresponding to respective picture marks with the service or payment provider in advance. The merchant the registrant may be the author of a picture mark who may be either the manufacturer of the product or service that the particular picture mark is associated with or the retail seller or distributor of the product or service. The picture images to be registered are basically the same as the pictures or images the consumers actually sees on the picture marks displayed on each product and service except that the picture marks may have small additions to the registered picture images in the form of marks labels logos icons or the like to convey to the payment provider the identity of the registrant or other information.

Using the registered picture images the payment provider may be able to link the consumers who scan and transmit specific picture images to a payment provider to various information that the registrant of the picture images wishes to convey. More specifically such linkage is implemented by associating various attributes registered together with the picture images by the merchant with each picture image. The attributes may include any channels or mediums of information that the merchant desires to convey to potential consumers. In one embodiment the attributes may be website links bringing the users to a site of a manufacturer distributor or retailer immediately on their user devices where more information may be conveyed to the consumer. The webpage may be developed by the manufacturer distributor or retailer for the purpose of advertising promoting or selling particular products or services that specific picture marks are attached to. The page may contain the merchant s discounted items and other incentives. The webpage may be for the purpose of providing the consumers with information on any related products or services from the same merchant or it could be a webpage inviting consumers to open an account with the merchant.

In one embodiment the users may be directed to different web sites depending on the current location of the users. Using the GPS function most mobile devices carry these days the location information of users may be transmitted to a payment provider together with specific scanned picture images of a product or service. The registrant of the picture images and attributes whether it is the manufacturer or retailor may wish to associate a given picture image with multiple different websites depending on where the user is. For instance if the user who transmits the picture images is in LA the registrant may wish to direct the user to a web site specifically developed for locals living in LA and if the user is in New York then to another web site for New Yorkers. For that purpose at the time of registration of picture images and attributes the registrant may associate or give instructions to a service provider to do so different attributes web links with a same particular picture image for communication to users depending on where the picture images is transmitted from.

In another embodiment the attributes associated with the particular picture image may be mobile APPs or html5 APPs which would be automatically loaded and run on the user device. In still another embodiment the attributes may be alpha numeric text data pictures moving clips or any other media files containing messages or images related with the products or services which would be automatically displayed or played on the user s device via an application thereon.

Depending on the attributes the registered picture images may be categorized into two types of images a genus picture images and a species picture images. The genus picture images are those associated with a common line or similar kinds of products. A species picture image is a minor variant of a genus picture image created by slightly modifying a portion or a feature in the genus picture image or adding a minor feature to it. The modification may be minor such that consumers may still recognize the modified image as related to the general line of a product or service represented by the genus picture image but may create distinction to enable the payment provider server to distinguish it from the genus picture image and other species of the same genus so as to associate a correct attribute s web links mobile APPs messages etc. to it.

In general a species picture image is registered for conveying additional information to that of the genus picture image and thereby may replicate the function of QR codes in conveying various information to consumers. For example for a particular kind of product or service line there may be several products of different grades or prices. There may be variants or related products or services and the merchant may wish to convey to consumers different messages or direct them to different web links for different variants of the product or service. In this case the merchant need not design totally new picture marks and accordingly register totally new picture images for each variant to do so. Instead the merchant may design slightly modified versions of the genus picture mark associated with the general product line and register them as species picture images with the payment provider.

Another example may be when there is a special promotion or sale for a limited period of time for a specific product or service. The merchant may wish to communicate to consumers special sale prices printable coupons or other promotion offers during that limited time. Again the merchant need not design a totally new picture mark and accordingly register a totally new picture image to convey such special but temporary information to consumers. Instead the merchant may design a modified version of a picture mark to be attached to the product or service for the promotion time and register a corresponding picture image with the payment provider as a species image together with the desired special information. The merchant may have the new information either replace the original message or web link associated with the genus picture image or be additionally displayed on the user s device for instance via another pop up window.

At step the merchant may see on the screen of the merchant device another tab button or link to register picture images of the merchant. The picture images to be registered may be in any publicly used image format such as jpeg jpg gif tiff png bmp ps or pdf. Tapping or clicking on the tab button or link may pop up a window that may request the merchant to upload first a genus picture image by browsing through the merchant device.

Once a genus picture image to register is selected by clicking on the particular picture image file name another window may be popped up at step for the merchant to enter in one embodiment an internet link or website URL to be associated with the selected genus picture image. In another embodiment at the same step the pop up window may provide a list of mobile APPs or html5 APPs for the merchant to choose to be loaded and run on the user device. In still another embodiment at the same step the merchant may be given a choice to associate the genus picture image with any media files in texts pictures moving clips or any other format that can be automatically displayed or played on the user s device through a user application. The media files may deliver any information related with the product or service. The merchant may upload the media files from the merchant device in the same manner with uploading the picture image files.

At the next step the merchant may be asked whether to register any species picture image that might have been designed for delivering various special or extra information to consumers. Once registering a species picture image if any then at step the merchant may enter just as in step any attribute s to be associated with it such as special messages media or web links. In this stage the merchant may be given an option in one embodiment to have the newly entered attribute either override or simply added to the attribute s associated with the genus picture image. In the former case only the newly entered attributes web links APPs media files will be loaded on the user device when a consumer transmits to the payment provider the modified picture mark but in the latter two attributes may be loaded on the user device consecutively for example through a window being popped upon a base website.

In an embodiment at step the merchant may be given an option to enter different website URLs mobile APPs or html5 APPs or media files for a given genus or species picture image depending on predetermined list of locations. In this case when finishing registering multiple attributes for each genus or species picture image the merchant may be asked whether to make the registered attributes location specific such that when a genus or species picture image is transmitted from a particular location the user may be directed to an attribute s assigned to or made specific to that particular location.

When having finished registering all species picture images and related attributes the merchant be asked at step whether to register another genus picture image for a different line of product or service. When the merchant wishes to do so it may repeat the steps from to . For any reason if the merchant wishes to use a totally different genus picture image for a product or service that is related to or a variant of the same line of products services the merchant may do so still by registering it as another genus picture image at step not as a species at step .

At each step the merchant can view the information entered or uploaded and when no more information is to be added the user is notified to confirm or modify if desired any information or uploaded material. All the picture images and attributes registered are stored together with the merchant identifier in the server of either the service provider and associated with the merchant account. The merchant may add modify or delete the registered picture images and the associated attributes any time after the initial set up by accessing the merchant s account and repeating the process described herein. Note that one or more of the steps in any process described herein can be combined with one or more steps omitted and or performed in a different sequence. After finishing the process the entered data of the merchant are stored or associated with the merchant account on the payment provider.

At step the payment provider receives picture information for a particular product or service from a user through a user application on a user device. The user device may be any device that has a capability of wireless communication a scanner such as Zxing or any other suitable one and an application that can read and transmit the scanned data to the payment provider. In another embodiment a camera may perform the same job as the scanner when the payment provider has a proper application to process the transmitted photo images. Examples of the user devices with such functions may include but are not limited to a PC a mobile phone a tablet iPad etc.

The user application may be developed either by the payment provider or by a third party. The picture information is first scanned from a picture mark that may be attached to a product in a merchant s physical store displayed next to a product s photo or a service description in the catalogue newspaper or magazine or shown on a merchant s web page next to its products or services. Next the picture information is wirelessly transmitted from the user device to the payment provider through the user application. The picture information may include in one embodiment not only the digital data of a particular picture image registered with the payment provider by a merchant but an identifier of the merchant who is the author of or associated with the picture mark on its product or service. If the identifier of the merchant is included in the picture information the payment provider may more readily locate and access the merchant s account. However even if the identifier of the merchant is not included the payment provider still may be able to identify the merchant by searching its server for a matching picture image out of a plurality of picture images registered by multiple merchants.

In one embodiment when receiving the picture information at step the payment provider may further receive location information of the user from the user device. The location information may be obtained independently from GPS function installed in the user device and automatically transmitted to the service provider together with the picture information.

Once receiving the picture information then at step the payment provider may determine which registered picture image the picture information corresponds to. The payment provider has in the memory of its server a plurality of picture images registered by multiple merchants. The payment provider may derive a picture image out of the digital data of picture information it received and then search its memory for a particular picture image that may match the derived picture image.

If the picture information contains a merchant identifier the search would be faster since the server may have to search only within the account information of the identified merchant. But the payment provider may still find a matching picture image even without the merchant identifier.

At step the payment provider may further determine what attribute or attributes are associated with the matching picture image determined. The registered attributes may include internet or web links mobile APPs html5 APPs or any media files in texts pictures moving clips or any other known format that can be automatically displayed or played on the user s device through a user application. In one embodiment at the time of registration by a registrant each of the registered picture images may have been uniquely associated to at least one attributes from the registered attributes. In this case the service provider may quickly be able to locate and determine matching attribute s associated with the matching picture image found at step . In another embodiment when location information of the user has been received by the payment provider together with the picture information at step the payment provider may locate and determine matching attribute s not only associated with the matching picture image found at step but also specific to the location obtained from the location information. Such association of attributes for a given picture image to respective specific locations may have been done at step of the process .

Once the set of attributes that is associated with the matching picture image is determined the payment provider may communicate at step to the user the matching attributes. As described hereinbefore in one embodiment the matching attributes such as web links may be different for users living in different locations even the associated picture image is the same for all the locations. The attributes may be loaded on the user device via the user application installed therein. If the attribute is a web link the user application may open the link or connect to a wireless network on the user device. If the attribute is a mobile APP or html5 APP the user application may launch the APP on the user device. If the attribute is a media file such as sound or clip or even text messages the user application may play or display text contact information via either the user application or another appropriate application in the user device.

In one embodiment the payment provider may receive at step a payment request from the user if the user has an account with the payment provider to process payment for item s the user found in the web link that automatically loaded on the user device by the communication of an attribute from the payment provider. In one embodiment the payment request may be sent from the user device by the user selecting for instance a Purchase or Buy tab or button on the user application. If not already authenticated or logged in the user may be asked to enter certain information such as a user name an email address and or a password PIN. If partially authenticated the user may only need to enter a password PIN. Receiving the payment request together with the user s account information the payment provider may be able to process the payment immediately with the knowledge of the identity of the merchant obtained from the merchant s account information when it communicated to the user the matching attribute set.

In another embodiment the payment request may be transmitted to the payment provider directly from the merchant server at the user s request. When the user selects the Purchase or Buy tab or button or even says Pay on a merchant s website viewed from the user device the merchant server may obtain the user s information from the user application that the user is logged on and make a payment request to the payment provider for the items the user chose at the merchant s website.

User device merchant server and payment provider server may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable media such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of system and or accessible over network .

Network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks.

User device may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example in one embodiment the user device may be implemented as a personal computer PC a smart phone personal digital assistant PDA laptop computer tablet and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data such as an iPad from Apple .

User device may include one or more browser applications which may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit user to browse information available over network . For example in one embodiment browser application may be implemented as a web browser configured to view information available over the Internet and or access merchant sites for viewing and purchasing commercial products. User device may also include one or more toolbar applications which may be used for example to provide client side processing for performing desired tasks in response to operations selected by user . In one embodiment toolbar application may display a user interface in connection with browser application as further described herein.

User device may further include a purchase application by which the user may transmit a purchase request to the payment provider server . The purchase application may be incorporated into the browser in one embodiment such that it may enable the user directly making a purchase request from a merchant s website loaded via the browser . Further the purchase application may have a scanning function to scan through a scanner in the user device a picture mark of a product or service either at a physical store or on a merchant s online shopping site to obtain picture information and transmit it to the payment provider server via network .

User device may further include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide desired features to user device . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. Applications may also include email texting voice and IM applications that allow user to send and receive emails calls and texts through network as well as applications that enable the user to communicate transfer information and make payments. User device includes one or more user identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with browser application identifiers associated with hardware of user device or other appropriate identifiers such as used for payment user device authentication. In one embodiment user identifier may be used by a payment service provider to associate user with a particular account maintained by the payment provider as further described herein. A communications application with associated interfaces enables user device to communicate within system .

Merchant server may be maintained for example by a merchant or seller offering various products and or services in exchange for payment to be received over network . Merchant server may be used for POS or online purchases and transactions. Generally merchant server may be maintained by anyone or any entity that receives money which includes charities as well as retailers and restaurants. For example a purchased item may be a donation to charity in the name of the user . Merchant server includes a database identifying available products and or services e.g. collectively referred to as items which may be made available for viewing and purchase by user . Accordingly merchant server also includes a marketplace application which may be configured to serve information over network to browser of user device . In one embodiment user may interact with marketplace application through browser applications over network in order to view various products food items or services identified in database .

Further the merchant server may further include a picture mark registration application which may be either incorporated into the marketplace application or separate but linked with the marketplace application for the purpose of providing the service of transmitting a request with other necessary data to the payment provider to register picture images and various attributes to be associated therewith in connection with picture marks on the products and services of the merchant. The application is connected to database to upload picture images and attributes stored therein.

Merchant server also includes a checkout application which may be configured to facilitate the purchase by user of goods or services identified by marketplace application . Checkout application may be configured to accept payment information from or on behalf of user through payment service provider server over network . For example checkout application may receive and process a payment confirmation from payment service provider server as well as transmit transaction information to the payment provider and receive information from the payment provider e.g. a transaction ID .

Payment provider server may be maintained for example by an online payment service provider which may provide payment between user and the operator of merchant server . In this regard payment provider server includes one or more payment applications which may be configured to interact with user device and or merchant server over network to facilitate the purchase of goods or services communicate display information and send payments by user of user device and as discussed above.

Payment provider server also maintains a plurality of user or merchant accounts each of which may include account information associated with individual users including funders profile created by the user . For example account information may include private financial information of users of devices such as account numbers passwords device identifiers user names phone numbers credit card information bank information or other financial information and shipping information which may be used to facilitate online transactions by user . Account information especially of a merchant may also include an identifier of the merchant one or more picture images and one or more attributes registered by the merchant. Advantageously payment application may be configured to interact with merchant server on behalf of user during a transaction with checkout application to track and manage purchases made by users and which funding sources are used as well as incentives for a user.

Payment provider server may further include a picture mark matching application which is associated with the user s account information . The picture mark matching application receives from the user via the purchase application picture information scanned from the user device determines a matching picture image by comparing the picture information with the registered picture images stored in a data base determine a matching attribute set uniquely associated with the matching picture image and communicate to the user device the matching attribute set to be loaded on the user device .

The transaction processing application which may be part of payment application or separate may be configured to receive a purchase request from a user device and or merchant server for processing payment and storing the transaction in a payment database . In an embodiment such purchase request may come to the transaction processing application through via the purchase application in the user s device . The transaction processing application may include one or more applications to process information from user for processing an order and payment using various selected funding instruments as described herein. As such transaction processing application may store details of an order associated with a phrase from individual users.

Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information data signals and information between various components of computer system . Components include an input output I O component that processes a user action such as selecting keys from a keypad keyboard selecting one or more buttons or links etc. and sends a corresponding signal to bus . I O component may also include an output component such as a display and a cursor control such as a keyboard keypad mouse etc. . An optional audio input output component may also be included to allow a user to use voice for inputting information by converting audio signals. Audio I O component may allow the user to hear audio. A transceiver or network interface transmits and receives signals between computer system and other devices such as another user device a merchant server or a payment provider server via network . In one embodiment the transmission is wireless although other transmission mediums and methods may also be suitable. A processor which can be a micro controller digital signal processor DSP or other processing component processes these various signals such as for display on computer system or transmission to other devices via a communication link . Processor may also control transmission of information such as cookies or IP addresses to other devices.

Components of computer system also include a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM and or a disk drive . Computer system performs specific operations by processor and other components by executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component . Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one embodiment the logic is encoded in non transitory computer readable medium. In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave optical and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EEPROM FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

