---

title: One gesture, one blink, and one-touch payment and buying using haptic control via messaging and calling multimedia system on mobile and wearable device, currency token interface, point of sale device, and electronic payment card
abstract: Methods and systems for messaging, calling, and one blink, one-touch, and one gesture payments and buying via mobile and wearable devices are disclosed. An exemplary system comprises a database in communication with a processor, the processor configured to provide a haptic control associated with the system. The haptic control is shown on a display of a mobile and wearable device overlapping other visual elements. The haptic control provides mode selection elements associated with a payment, messaging, and calling modes. The processor receives a selection of the payment mode via the mode selection elements from a user. Upon the selection, context is extracted from the display. Based on the context, a payment transaction type which the user intends to perform is determined. The payment transaction type includes a payment receiving transaction and a payment sending transaction. Based on the determining, a transaction request is sent to a financial institution using the extraction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09576285&OS=09576285&RS=09576285
owner: 
number: 09576285
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20160531
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 979 613 ONE SCAN AND ONE TOUCH PAYMENT AND BUYING USING HAPTIC CONTROL VIA MESSAGING AND CALLING MULTIMEDIA SYSTEM ON MOBILE AND WEARABLE DEVICE CURRENCY TOKEN INTERFACE POINT OF SALE DEVICE AND ELECTRONIC PAYMENT CARD filed Dec. 28 2015 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 185 491 entitled FACILITATING MOBILE DEVICE PAYMENTS USING PRODUCT CODE SCANNING filed on Jul. 18 2011 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 957 644 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR MOBILE APPLICATION WEARABLE APPLICATION TRANSACTIONAL MESSAGING CALLING DIGITAL MULTIMEDIA CAPTURE AND PAYMENT TRANSACTIONS filed on Dec. 3 2015 which is Continuation in Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 815 988 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR MOBILE APPLICATION WEARABLE APPLICATION TRANSACTIONAL MESSAGING CALLING DIGITAL MULTIMEDIA CAPTURE AND PAYMENT TRANSACTIONS filed on Aug. 1 2015 which claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 749 412 entitled EFFICIENT TRANSACTIONAL MESSAGING BETWEEN LOOSELY COUPLED CLIENT AND SERVER OVER MULTIPLE INTERMITTENT NETWORKS WITH POLICY BASED ROUTING filed on Mar. 29 2010 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 034 509 entitled EFFICIENT TRANSACTIONAL MESSAGING BETWEEN LOOSELY COUPLED CLIENT AND SERVER OVER MULTIPLE INTERMITTENT NETWORKS WITH POLICY BASED ROUTING filed on Sep. 23 2013 which is Continuation in Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 677 098 entitled EFFICIENT TRANSACTIONAL MESSAGING BETWEEN LOOSELY COUPLED CLIENT AND SERVER OVER MULTIPLE INTERMITTENT NETWORKS WITH POLICY BASED ROUTING filed on Sep. 30 2003 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 415 546 entitled DATA PROCESSING SYSTEM filed on Oct. 1 2002 which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This application relates generally to data processing and more specifically to methods and systems for one touch and one gesture buying and paying performed via a mobile and wearable device.

Mobile payments generally refer to payment operations performed via a mobile or wearable device. The operations performed via mobile and wearable devices may include electronic commerce transactions retail purchasing micropayments and other daily payments. Mobile payments may utilize credit cards debit cards gift cards and virtual currencies. While mobile payments facilitate and stimulate the trade the procedure of providing financial details and authenticating of identity may be tedious and time consuming. Therefore the convenience of mobile payments for daily micropayments is hindered.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more aspects comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more aspects. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various aspects may be employed and this description is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

Provided are computer implemented methods and systems containing a secure NFC contactless payment chip which is activated when brought close to a contactless reader at retailers in taxis or on public transport. The card reader treats one gesture in exactly the same way it would a contactless payment card reading the encrypted data on the chip and authorizing the transaction. Funds are withdrawn from your device prepaid account and transaction details are logged always keeping you on top of your balance via the device app or the secure website.

Employing a motion sensor for its gesture functionality transactions are transmitted to a point of sales POS device payee device and another mobile and wearable device using Bluetooth Low Energy BLE 

using user s hand a series of gestures such as sticking certain fingers out and then making a fist would approve the transaction and trigger funds to be taken from the account previously linked using an online dashboard.

Provided are computer implemented methods and systems for messaging calling and one touch and one gesture and one blink payments and buying via a mobile and wearable device. Using the methods or systems described herein a user may perform facilitated electronic payments from any location. For this purpose the user may register with the messaging calling and one touch and one gesture and one blink payment and buying system. During the registration the user may provide his financial information. The financial information may include bank account information credit card information debit card information gift card information prepaid card information insurance account information merchant account information mobile currency information digital money account SDK payment information in app payment information social networking payment information prepaid card information API payment information mobile account payment information mobile currency information and so forth. When required the user may activate a haptic control associated with a messaging calling and one touch and one gesture and one blink payment and buying system. The haptic control may be displayed over the video output of the device and overlap other applications or pages. The haptic control may provide for mode selection elements associated with a payment mode a messaging mode a calling mode and a multimedia capture mode. Through the haptic control the messaging calling and one touch and one gesture and one blink payment and buying system may receive the selection of the payment mode via the mode selection elements of the haptic control from a user. Upon the selection context may be extracted from the display of the mobile and wearable device. Based on the context a payment transaction type which the user intends to perform may be determined. The payment transaction type may include a payment receiving transaction and a payment sending transaction. Based on the determining a transaction request may be generated using data of the extraction and the financial information of the user provided during the registration.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the presented concepts. The presented concepts may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process operations have not been described in detail so as to not unnecessarily obscure the described concepts. While some concepts will be described in conjunction with the specific embodiments it will be understood that these embodiments are not intended to be limiting.

Various computer implemented methods and systems for messaging calling and one touch and one gesture and one blink payments and buying via a mobile and wearable device are described herein. The described system enables a user to make and request payments using a mobile device by one touch. To facilitate access to the system the user initiates the system. When the system is initiated a one touch button is shown on a display of the mobile device on top of other applications and or widgets. The one touch button has at least three controls to activate messaging calling or one touch and one gesture and one blink payment. One touch payment control when activated determines whether the user intends to make a payment or to request a payment by the context in view on the display and performs the corresponding operation. Such accelerated payment procedure may facilitate electronic purchases and stimulate electronic trade.

Referring now to the drawings illustrates an environment within which messaging calling and one touch and one gesture and one blink payment and buying system and a method of using thereof can be implemented. The environment may include a user a client device network a messaging calling and one touch and one gesture and one blink payment and buying system . On a user request the messaging calling and one touch and one gesture and one blink payment and buying system may provide a haptic control on a display of the client device . The haptic control may include for example a one touch button.

Via the haptic control the user may exchange messages with a recipient make calls and perform or request one touch and one gesture and one blink payments . The messages calls and one touch and one gesture and one blink payments are transmitted to the system and further to the recipient or payee not shown via the network using the client device .

The network may include the Internet or any other network capable of communicating data between devices. Suitable networks may include or interface with any one or more of for instance a local intranet a PAN Personal Area Network a LAN Local Area Network a WAN Wide Area Network a MAN Metropolitan Area Network a virtual private network VPN a storage area network SAN a frame relay connection an Advanced Intelligent Network AIN connection a synchronous optical network SONET connection a digital T1 T3 E1 or E3 line Digital Data Service DDS connection DSL Digital Subscriber Line connection an Ethernet connection an ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network line a dial up port such as a V.90 V.34 or V.34bis analog modem connection a cable modem an ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode connection or an FDDI Fiber Distributed Data Interface or CDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface connection. Furthermore communications may also include links to any of a variety of wireless networks including WAP Wireless Application Protocol GPRS General Packet Radio Service GSM Global System for Mobile Communication CDMA Code Division Multiple Access or TDMA Time Division Multiple Access cellular phone networks GPS Global Positioning System CDPD cellular digital packet data RIM Research in Motion Limited duplex paging network Bluetooth radio or an IEEE 802.11 based radio frequency network. The network can further include or interface with any one or more of an RS 232 serial connection an IEEE 1394 Firewire connection a Fiber Channel connection an IrDA infrared port a SCSI Small Computer Systems Interface connection a Universal Serial Bus USB connection or other wired or wireless digital or analog interface or connection mesh or Digi networking.

The transaction request may be sent without requesting financial information authorizing or confirmations from the user. However in some embodiments the user with the help of options of the system .

Furthermore the user may select a messaging mode via the mode selection elements of the haptic control . Then the processor may provide a messaging interface on the display of the mobile and wearable device. When a message and a choice of a recipient is received from the user via the messaging interface the processor .

If the calling mode is selected via the haptic control the processor may provide a calling interface on the display of the mobile and wearable device.

If the multimedia mode is selected via the haptic control the processor may initiate one or more sensors to capture multimedia to obtain captured multimedia. The processor may analyze a duration of the single touch to the section element of the one touch button associated with the multimedia capture mode.

As shown in the method may commence at operation with receiving payment information associated with a user. The payment information may be also associated with a mobile payment account of the user in a messaging calling and one touch and one gesture and one blink payment and buying system. At operation a unique code encoding the payment information is generated. The unique code is provided to the user at operation .

At operation a selection of the payment mode via the mode selection elements of the haptic control is received from the user. Upon the selection context is extracted from the display at operation . Information from the screen in view on the mobile and wearable device and be captured and analyzed to identify the context. Based on the context a payment transaction type to be performed may be determined at operation .

Based on the determining of the payment transaction type a transaction request associated with the determined payment transaction type may be sent at operation .

If the transaction request is associated with the payment sending transaction a deposit amount associated with the payment sending transaction related to the user may be received at operation .

If the calling mode is selected a calling interface may be provided to the user. The user may select a call recipient in his contacts and make a call request. The system may receive the call request from the user.

On selection of the multimedia mode one or more sensors may be initiated to capture multimedia to obtain captured multimedia. A duration of the single touch to the section element of the one touch button associated with the multimedia capture mode may be analyzed. Based on the analysis a type of the captured multimedia may be determined an image and a video recording. When the type if determined the captured multimedia may be recorded to the database according to the type determined based on the duration. For instance if the duration of the single touch to the section element of the one touch button associated with the multimedia capture mode is one second an image is recorded to the database if the duration is more than one second a video recording may be stored to the database.

In an example embodiment the data of the payment card may be stored into a cloud network. In some embodiments the data of the payment card may be stored in the cloud network as a token a processor and memory storing instructions that when executed by the processor the sensing and haptic control is integrated with at least one mobile application associated with the mobile and wearable device augmented reality device and virtual reality device capturing a gesture or a blink using a camera of the AR and VR computing device 

cause the gesture or blink to be analyzed to attempt to recognize an identity of the person contained in the images 

authenticate the user as a result of the identity of the person being recognized as the user associated with the identifying information 

In some embodiments the transaction request may include a unique code associated with the user. The unique code may encode at least bank account information of the user and a payment amount. In further embodiments the unique code may be displayed on the mobile and wearable device for scanning by the merchant.

In a further example embodiment the system may receive product data based on scanning of the product data by the mobile and wearable device associated with the user. The product data may be associated with one or more products.

The system may determine that the total price for the one or more products exceeds a predetermined price.

In some embodiments the transaction request may include at least a user phone number. In such a case the payment sending transaction may include sending a payment from a phone account of the user to a merchant account.

In further embodiments the payment receiving transaction and the payment sending transaction may be performed by pairing of the mobile and wearable device and a merchant device using a reader. The reader may be connected to the merchant device and plugged into the mobile and wearable device wherein the payment transaction performed by the processor is associated with a NFC the payment transaction being performed for purchases online and offline wherein a payment associated with the payment transaction is transferred from a pre paid account of the user or charged to a mobile account of the user or a bank account of the user wherein the payment includes at least a one touch and one gesture and one blink payment for street parking in demarcated areas the payment being performed using a license plate transponder tags barcode stickers and reading the code from the display wherein a merchant uses a combination of the NFC and the code on the display for performing the one touch and one gesture and one blink payment wherein the NFC is used to establish radio communication with the external device by touching the housing and the external device or bringing the housing and the external device into proximity the proximity includes a distance of up to 10 centimeters wherein the processor is operable to operate in three modes the three modes include an NFC target mode when the device is acting as a credential a NFC initiator mode when the device is acting as a reader and an NFC peer to peer mode wherein the payment is further associated with advertisement tags two dimensional barcodes and ultra high frequency tags wherein the processor is operable to be connected to a cloud wherein user credentials are provisioned over the air the payment being associated with a payment application associated with the processor to control transferring of the payment and access payment readers wherein the NFC unit is operable to connect to a third party NFC device with a server for data wherein the device is adapted to enable a Bluetooth low energy payment wherein the device is associated with one or more of a transactional payment based on Unstructured Supplementary Service Data Short Message Service direct operator billing a credit card mobile payment an online wallet a QR code payment contactless NFC a cloud based mobile payment an audio signal based payment a Bluetooth Low Energy signal beacon payment an in application payment a Software Development Kit payment an Application Programming Interface payment a social networking payment and a direct carrier and bank co operation.

Thus one touch and one gesture and one blink payment and buying features may improve buying experience for customers and merchant. Additionally for the user that pays and buys products and services using the mobile application associated with one touch and one gesture and one blink payment and buying the number of taps and times the user is required to enter a user login identification number and a password for future purchases may be minimized.

In some embodiments upon launching of the at least one mobile application by the user a list of payment cards may be provided for selection by the user. The payment cards may be associated with one or more of the following a bank account a bank mobile account a service provider account a digital currency a universal national currency token interface a national digital currency an electric payment card and the like. Upon the selection a token may be sent to the mobile and wearable device. The token may be associated with a selected payment card and further payments may be performed using the token.

The transaction request may be generated using data of a mobile application or a page from which the payment mode is activated. For example the user may activate the payment mode from a purchase page of an online store. The payment may be immediately initiated without requesting further details. Data of a payment recipient and a payment amount may be received from the actual page or application and financial information of the user may be stored in the database of the messaging calling and one touch and one gesture and one blink payment and buying system . The user financial information may be provided by the user during registration with the messaging calling and one touch and one gesture and one blink payment and buying system .

Alternatively the transaction request may be generated using data of a page associated with billing In that case the system may generate a payment request using information extracted from the page as well as the financial information of the user stored in the system .

Transactions can be associated with transactional payments based on Unstructured Supplementary Service Data USSD or Short Message Service SMS direct operator billing credit card mobile payments online wallets QR code payments contactless near field communication NFC cloud based mobile payments audio signal based payment Bluetooth Low Energy BLE signal beacon payment in application payment SDK payment API payment social networking payment and direct carrier bank co operation.

Contactless NFC may be used to receive data for the payment request. For example when the one touch and one gesture and one blink payment mode is selected the user may make a payment for purchases in physical stores or transportation services. The mobile and wearable device may be equipped with a smart card. When a user waves the mobile and wearable device near a radar module a payment is made. In some cases the payment may require authentication. The NFC payment could be deducted from a pre paid account or changed to a mobile or band account directly. NFC payment may include displaying a barcode on the mobile device screen for mobile payment. The payment barcode can include one or more of the following a linear barcode a two dimensional barcode a three dimensional barcode a machine readable code and so forth.

The audio channel of the mobile phone may be another wireless interface that is used to receive data for a transaction request. Chip ultra sound and acoustic features of the mobile and wearable device may support mobile payments. Near sound data transfer NDST data over voice and NFC produce audio signatures that the mobile phone can pick up to enable electronic transactions.

In some embodiments the payment receiving transaction and the payment sending transaction are performed using a NFC. The NFC may be used to pair the mobile and wearable device and a merchant device by bringing the mobile and wearable device into proximity to the merchant device. The mobile and wearable device and the merchant device may be connected to a cloud network. The financial data and authorizing data associated with the user may be stored in the cloud network. In an example embodiment upon pairing the mobile and wearable device with the merchant device a Bluetooth connection between the mobile and wearable device and the merchant device may be established. The payment receiving transaction and the payment sending transaction may include at least a pear to pear transaction.

In some embodiments a beacon mobile payment sends out a Bluetooth Low Energy BLE signal to anyone or any device with mobile application to transfer payment data and get electronic receipt. When a customer checks in their picture and name may pop up on the retailer s point of sale system when a sales associate at the store totals a bill on a cash register or a card reading terminal the beacon mobile payment user gives verbal confirmation to the associate who matches the customer with the picture on the POS screen and concludes the transaction.

In some embodiments the user may select one of the stored payment accounts to perform a payment. Authentication may be made when the user accesses the messaging calling and one touch payment mobile service

Furthermore using the messaging calling and one touch payment mobile service the user may create automatic payments. For example the user may give instructions to transfer 1 to a specific account every week day at 1 25 PM. The messaging calling and one touch payment mobile service may receive the instructions and automatically perform the payment according to the instructions. After a predefined period for example after one month or every week or every year the messaging calling and one touch payment mobile service .

Thus various systems and methods for messaging calling and one touch and one gesture and one blink payments and buying via a mobile and wearable device have been described. Although embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the system and method described herein. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

