---

title: System and method for applying parental control limits from content providers to media content
abstract: System and Method of filtering and modifying access to media content based on parental control limits are provided. The method for filtering media content includes receiving authentication information for a content provider, authenticating to the content provider, importing parental control limits from the content provider, storing the received parental control limits in a customer profile, and filtering the media content based on the parental control limits to produce a filtered list of the media content. The method for modifying access to media content includes authenticating to a customer profile with a unique customer identifier, retrieving parental control limits from the customer profile, and modifying access to the media content based on the retrieved parental control limits. Changes in the parental control limits at a content provider may be detected and updated in the customer profile.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09615134&OS=09615134&RS=09615134
owner: REDBOX AUTOMATED RETAIL, LLC
number: 09615134
owner_city: Oakbrook Terrace
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160314
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 567 948 filed Aug. 6 2012 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR APPLYING PARENTAL CONTROL LIMITS FROM CONTENT PROVIDERS TO MEDIA CONTENT which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 523 257 filed Aug. 12 2011 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR APPLYING PARENTAL CONTROL LIMITS FROM CONTENT PROVIDERS TO MEDIA CONTENT both of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention relates to a system and method for applying parental control limits from content providers to media content. More particularly the present invention provides a system and method for the retrieval aggregation and application of parental control limits from content providers.

While the present invention is often described herein with reference to a digital video disc Blu Ray disc and video game distribution system an application to which the present invention is advantageously suited it will be readily apparent that the present invention is not limited to that application and can be employed in article dispensing systems used to distribute a wide variety of dispensable articles.

The digital video disc DVD player has been one of the most successful consumer electronics product launches in history. The market for DVD movie video Blu Ray movie video and video game rentals is enormous and growing. Millions of households have acquired DVDs since they were introduced in 1997. In the first quarter of 2003 alone it was estimated that well over three million DVD players were shipped to U.S. retailers.

In 2003 brick and mortar stores dominated the movie video and video game rental landscape in the U.S. Statistics showed that two brick and mortar companies controlled nearly sixty five percent of the home video rental business. One element repeatedly cited for success of certain brick and mortar store video rental franchises was perceived high availability of new video releases. Consumers want entertainment on demand and through stocking multiple units of each new release successful brick and mortar companies meet this consumer demand.

The foregoing indicates that there is a significant market potential for aligning regular routines of consumers e.g. shopping getting coffee or gas or going to a convenience store with their DVD Blu Ray and video game rental activities.

One improved article dispensing machine is disclosed in commonly owned U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. The invention of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the present invention can function as an article dispensing machine based distribution system that will typically have multiple units of each new release per article dispensing machine. The dispensing machines of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the present invention can stock up to two thousand DVDs Blu Ray video games or other discs movies games or other entertainment content making the system competitive with existing brick and mortar video rental superstores.

The dispensing machine and system of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the present invention distinguishes itself from such stores by offering major benefits not conventionally offered by such stores including additional cross marketing programs e.g. promotional rentals for a certain amount of dollars spent at the retail location and convenience e.g. open always .

The dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the present invention yields a competitive advantage in the DVD Blu Ray disc and video game rental marketplace by offering consumers cross marketing promotional programs convenience of selection e.g. computer based searches for movies and recommendations based on consumer profiles and potentially extended hours. The present invention employs a more cost effective convenient platform than brick and mortar stores. In addition with the present invention dispensing machines can be situated in retail locations having high foot traffic such as at a popular grocery store restaurant drug store and or other popular retail location.

The dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the present invention can be operated at a substantial savings over the costs associated with traditional brick and mortar video rental stores. For example the present invention does not require hourly employees manning the dispensing machines or restocking them with inventories due to the ability of the article transport storage units to be delivered to picked up from retail locations by third party delivery services such as traditional or contracted courier services.

Unlike brick and mortar stores the dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the present invention does not require an on site store manager because all operational decisions can be made at a centralized location by a management team officed remote from the retail locations. Unlike brick and mortar stores the dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the present invention does not require significant physical space. Unlike brick and mortar stores the dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the present invention has low operating costs because no heating or air conditioning is required for the dispensing machines and they consume a relatively low level of electrical energy. In addition the dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 has low maintenance costs and downtime.

The dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the present invention addresses the shortcomings of traditional brick and mortar stores in a convenient and cost effective delivery vehicle having the added bonus of serving as an effective promotional platform that drives incremental sales to retail locations. In addition the dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the present invention overcomes these disadvantages by at least offering more new releases and older selections for any given time period and lower cost per viewing with significantly more convenience than Internet based and pay per view services.

The dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the present invention is a fully automated integrated DVD Blu Ray and video game rental and or purchase systems. It preferably incorporates robust secure scalable software that provides a fully personalized user experience and real time feedback to retail locations and advertisers scalable hardware that leverages existing technologies such as touch screen focused audio speakers and video monitors technology utilizing the Internet through a system website or mobile consumer electronics device application and an article transport storage unit that facilitates the exchange of new discs for old discs in each machine with virtually no need for human intervention. These technologies and others fill long felt needs in the art and give advantages over conventional video distribution options. The dispensing machine of the U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 and the present invention functions as much as a promotional platform as it does a rental kiosk.

By utilizing the dispensing machines and the fully interactive real time linked Internet website or mobile consumer electronics device applications consumers can rent one or more DVDs Blu Ray discs video games or other entertainment content directly from dispensing machines as well as indirectly by making a rental reservation through the website or application for later pickup at a conveniently located machine. These dispensing machines are preferably networked with each other with the inventory control and or supply office and with the system website or application by phone line DSL wireless network or other Internet connection at each retail location. Through this linked network the rental experience for each consumer can be customized based on a profile for each consumer such as via personalized home pages and rental screens.

Existing media content parental control systems allow a user to set restrictions and limits on viewing of media content on a per device basis. However the user must enter the desired parental control limits separately on each electronic device. For example a parent can set parental control limits on a cable television set top box but must separately set parental control limits on an account for a digital media content provider. Furthermore existing media content parental control systems utilize content ratings or other restrictions that are specific to the type of media content provided by the content provider such as a Motion Picture Association of America MPAA film content rating a TV Parental Guidelines television content rating or an Entertainment Software Rating Board ESRB video game content rating. The user may become frustrated in having to set the parental control limits on multiple electronic devices and or on a website even if the parental control limits involve the same types of settings.

The present invention allows for filtering of media content based on parental control limits stored in a customer profile. A list of the media content may be filtered based on the parental control limits. The present invention also allows for modification of access to media content based on the parental control limits. Access to the media content may also be modified based on the parental control limits. Access to the media content may include restricting access to media articles from an article dispensing machine and or media selections at a content provider. The present invention overcomes disadvantages of existing media content parental control systems by aggregating the parental control limits from multiple content providers in the customer profile. Moreover the present invention allows for electronic devices such as a computer consumer electronics device or website interface to access the aggregated parental control limits in the customer profile so that the parental control limits do not have to be re entered on each of the electronic devices. Other features and advantages are provided by the following description and drawings.

While this invention is susceptible of embodiments in many different forms there is shown in the drawings and will herein be described in detail preferred embodiments of the invention with the understanding that the present disclosure is to be considered as an exemplification of the principles of the invention and is not intended to limit the broad aspect of the invention to the embodiments illustrated.

As shown in each article dispensing machine includes a dispensing machine processor also referred to herein as a vending controller which is connected to a first sensor and a second sensor a first motor and a second motor and a user interface control system collectively referred to as the peripheral devices. The processor is capable of executing various programs to provide input to and or receive outputs from the peripheral devices. Suitable processors for such use are known to those of skill in the art. In addition the processor is operably connected to at least one memory storage device such as a hard drive or flash drive or other suitable memory storage device.

Article dispensing machine memory storage device can include any one or a combination of volatile memory elements e.g. random access memory RAM such as DRAM SRAM SDRAM etc. and nonvolatile memory elements e.g. ROM hard drive tape CDROM etc. . Moreover article dispensing machine memory storage device may incorporate electronic magnetic optical and or other types of storage media. Article dispensing machine memory storage device can have a distributed architecture where various components are situated remote from one another but are still accessed by processor. Article dispensing machine memory storage device includes an article dispensing machine database .

The article dispensing machines preferably comprise a network of machines in communication with one another. As shown in in the preferred configuration the article dispensing machines are networked with one another via a central server or central controller in a hub and spoke system. However optionally the article dispensing machines may be connected and communicate directly with one another and or subsets of article dispensing machines may communicate with one another directly as well as with the central server .

Generally in terms of hardware architecture the central server and the content provider backend shown in include a central processor and or controller central memory and one or more input and or output I O devices or peripherals that are communicatively coupled via a local interface. The architecture of the central server is set forth in greater detail in U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 609 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. Numerous variations of the architecture of the central server and the content provider backend would be understood by one of skill in the art and are encompassed within the scope of the present invention.

The processor controller is a hardware device for executing software particularly software stored in memory. The processor can be any custom made or commercially available processor a central processing unit CPU an auxiliary processor among several processors associated with the server a semiconductor based microprocessor in the form of a microchip or chip set a macroprocessor or generally any device for executing software instructions. Examples of suitable commercially available microprocessors are as follows a PA RISC series microprocessor from Hewlett Packard Company an 80x86 or Pentium series microprocessor from Intel Corporation a PowerPC microprocessor from IBM a Sparc microprocessor from Sun Microsystems Inc. or a 68xxx series microprocessor from Motorola Corporation. The processor may also represent a distributed processing architecture such as but not limited to SQL Smalltalk APL KLisp Snobol Developer 200 MUMPS Magic.

The software in memory may include one or more separate programs. The separate programs comprise ordered listings of executable instructions for implementing logical functions. The software in memory includes a suitable operating system O S . A non exhaustive list of examples of suitable commercially available operating systems is as follows a a Windows operating system available from Microsoft Corporation b a Netware operating system available from Novell Inc. c a Macintosh operating system available from Apple Inc. d a UNIX operating system which is available for purchase from many vendors such as the Hewlett Packard Company Sun Microsystems Inc. and AT T Corporation e a LINUX operating system which is freeware that is readily available on the Internet f a run time Vxworks operating system from WindRiver Systems Inc. or g an appliance based operating system such as that implemented in handheld computers smartphones or personal digital assistants PDAs e.g. PalmOS available from Palm Computing Inc. Windows CE or Windows Phone available from Microsoft Corporation iOS available from Apple Inc Android available from Google Inc. BlackBerry OS available from Research in Motion Limited Symbian available from Nokia Corp. . The operating system essentially controls the execution of other computer programs and provides scheduling input output control file and data management memory management and communication control and related services.

Steps and or elements and or portions thereof of the present invention may be implemented using a source program executable program object code script or any other entity comprising a set of instructions to be performed. When a source program the program needs to be translated via a compiler assembler interpreter or the like which may or may not be included within the memory so as to operate properly in connection with the operating system O S . Furthermore the software embodying the present invention can be written as a an object oriented programming language which has classes of data and methods or b a procedural programming language which has routines subroutines and or functions for example but not limited to C C Pascal Basic Fortran Cobol Perl Java Ada and Lua.

When article dispensing machine is in operation the article dispensing machine processor is configured to execute software stored within article dispensing machine memory to communicate data to and from the dispensing machine memory and to generally control operations of article dispensing machine pursuant to the software. The software aspects of the present invention and the O S in whole or in part but typically the latter are read by processor perhaps buffered within the processor and then executed.

When the present invention or aspects thereof are implemented in software it should be noted that the software can be stored on any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with any computer related system or method. In the context of this document a computer readable medium is an electronic magnetic optical or other physical device or means that can contain or store a computer program for use by or in connection with a computer related system or method. The present invention can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system apparatus or device and execute the instructions. In the context of this document a computer readable medium can be any means that can store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection electronic having one or more wires a portable computer diskette magnetic a random access memory RAM electronic a read only memory ROM electronic an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM EEPROM or Flash memory electronic an optical fiber optical and a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM optical . Note that the computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

For communication with the central server article dispensing machine is equipped with network communication equipment and circuitry. In a preferred embodiment the network communication equipment includes a network card such as an Ethernet card. In a preferred network environment each of the plurality of article dispensing machines on the network is configured to use the TCP IP protocol to communicate via the network . It will be understood however that a variety of network protocols could also be employed such as IPX SPX Netware PPP and others. It will also be understood that while a preferred embodiment of the present invention is for article dispensing machine to have a broadband connection to the network the principles of the present invention are also practicable with a dialup connection using a standard modem. Wireless network connections are also contemplated such as wireless Ethernet satellite infrared radio frequency Bluetooth near field communication and cellular networks.

The central controller communicates with the article dispensing machine controllers via the network . The central controller is preferably located at a central station or office that is remote from the plurality of article dispensing machines . The central controller can operate as the server for communicating over the network between the plurality of article dispensing machines . The central controller receives communications and information from the article dispensing machines and also transmits communications and information to the machines . For example when a rental transaction is performed at the article dispensing machine transaction data such as the rented title is then transmitted from the machine to the central controller via the network . It will be understood that central servers in general such as the central controller are often distributed. A plurality of central servers controllers may optionally be arranged in load balanced architecture to improve the speed and efficiency of the network. To accomplish the implementation of multiple controllers the controllers may be in communication with a router distributor .

The central controller is also in communication with a central database . The central database stores information regarding the transaction network. For example the central database stores data regarding the vending inventory at each of the plurality of article dispensing machines . The central database also stores sales information regarding the sales quantities of the vending merchandise stored in the machines . For example the central database stores information regarding the sales totals for each title and for each machine vending location. Central database also stores user information and rental transaction information such as user IDs the date on which discs are due to be returned the date on which discs were rented from the machines and a list of valid coupon codes and restrictions associated with those codes. In certain embodiments central database also may be configured to store user PINs. Some of this information is also preferably stored in article dispensing machine database .

Central database and databases in the content provider backend such as the content provider customer profile database and other databases are preferably relational databases although other types of database architectures may be used without departing from the principles of the present invention. For example the databases and may be a SQL database an Access database or an Oracle database and in any such embodiment have the functionality stored herein. Central database is also preferably capable of being shared as illustrated between a plurality of central controllers and its information is also preferably capable of being transmitted via network . It will be understood that a variety of methods exist for serving the information stored in central database and database . In one embodiment .net and Microsoft Reporting Services are employed however other technologies such as ODBC MySQL CFML and the like may be used.

The central controller central database and components of the content provider backend are also accessible by an electronic device which may include a personal computer mobile device e.g. smartphone personal digital assistant etc. tablet computer video game console television and Blu Ray player . The electronic device may be in direct or indirect communication with the central controller central database and or the content provider backend through a wired and or wireless network connection such as Ethernet Wi Fi cellular 3G 4G etc. or other type of connection. As a personal computer the electronic device will be understood as comprising hardware and software consistent with marketable personal and laptop computers such as a display monitor a keyboard and a microprocessor. The electronic device may also comprise Internet browser software such as Firefox Internet Explorer Chrome or Safari. Using the browser software a user of the electronic device can access a web interface through the central controller . An application may also execute on the electronic device that accesses the central controller . To that end central controller preferably comprises web server software such as IIS or Apache. It will be understood that a variety of web server software and web browser software exists to implement the principles of the present invention without departing therefrom. Through the web browser software or application the electronic device communicates with the central controller and allows the user to login to a central command functionality of the central controller and to view and modify data stored in the central database . The browser interface or application also allows the user to perform certain system functions which will affect the inventory and behavior of the article dispensing machines . The electronic device may communicate with the central controller central database components of the system backend and components of the content provider backend using rules and specifications of an application programming interface API .

In a preferred embodiment a financial server is also in communication with the network . It will be understood that a variety of financial services exist for processing financial information via the Internet and other networks . Those services allow for the processing of credit card and debit card information so that users of the services do not have to interface directly with credit and debit card companies. In the financial server is illustrated as a single server although the financial server may comprise an entire sub network of financial servers responsible for processing financial information.

As shown in article dispensing machine includes a machine housing with front rear top bottom and side panels. The machine housing is preferably a combination molded fiberglass and sheet metal cabinet. However those skilled in the art will appreciate that the housing can be constructed from a variety of other suitable materials and with a variety of other suitable manufacturing techniques.

As shown most clearly in a user interface portion of housing includes a card reader a keypad and or touch screen and an article transfer opening . The card reader is preferably designed in known fashion to read magnetically encoded membership and or credit debit cards for authorizing the distribution of articles of inventory through the article transfer opening . Keypad and or touch screen permits consumers and or inventory stocking personnel to communicate with the dispensing machine and or a central office linked in electrical communication with the dispensing machine. Keypad and or touch screen also permits consumers and or inventory stocking personnel to enter appropriate commands directed to carrying out specific machine tasks. It will be appreciated that the optional touch screen includes a monitor made with known technologies making it capable of being utilized as a user interface for entry of commands designed to carry out machine tasks. The touch screen may also be capable of displaying a QR Quick Response code to a customer. The customer may read the QR code with a camera on a mobile device or with a dedicated QR code reader. The QR code can represent a universal resource locator URL to access a digital media selection for example.

Furthermore it will be appreciated that additional user interface portions having additional or even identical user interface components could be incorporated within article dispensing machine . For example these components could be incorporated on other panels of the housing of machine so that the machine can be used simultaneously by multiple consumers translating into more efficient distribution of articles in high traffic areas. Dispensing machine also preferably includes speaker units. Known audio technology may be incorporated within dispensing machine to broadcast focused audio directed to relatively small e.g. three square feet locations in front of the machines from speaker units and or in other designated locations at a retail site.

The system backend includes components that primarily communicate information such as transaction and inventory data to and from the article dispensing machines . Components in the system backend also communicate information to and from the content provider backend and the A V display interface . The system backend is detailed below with reference to . The content provider backend includes components that primarily communicate information to and from the A V display interface . Components in the content provider backend also communicate information to and from the system backend as detailed further below. Data communicated between the article dispensing machines the system backend the content provider backend and or the A V display interface may utilize the XML Extensible Markup Language format. The electronic device and the A V display interface may communicate with the system backend and or the content provider backend using rules and specifications of an application programming interface API .

The A V display interface can be a set top box a module of an internet ready television a Blu Ray player with internet connectability a software application executing on a mobile device cable television converter box satellite television set top box IPTV Internet Protocol television set top box including AT T U Verse digital video recorder tablet computer video game console including Microsoft Xbox family Sony PlayStation family Nintendo Wii and similar devices handheld gaming device including Sony PlayStation Portable Nintendo DS and similar devices laptop computer desktop computer streaming media box including Apple TV Google TV Roku Boxee and similar devices or any other device capable of receiving and displaying streaming on demand and or downloadable electronic media from a content provider. Moreover applications may be installed and executed on the A V display interface that communicate with the system backend and or the content provider backend to provide media content and other information to a user of the A V display interface .

The article dispensing machines can communicate with the system backend including the central server and controller via network communication equipment and circuitry as detailed above. Furthermore the system backend can communicate with the content provider backend and the A V display interface via the same or different network communication equipment and circuitry. In particular the system backend can directly communicate with the content provider backend and the A V display interface or in one embodiment the system backend can communicate with the A V display interface through the content provider backend . It will also be understood that while a preferred embodiment of the present invention is for the components of the system to have a broadband connection with one another the principles of the present invention are also practicable with a dialup connection using a standard modem. Wireless network connections are also contemplated such as wireless Ethernet satellite infrared radio frequency Bluetooth near field communication and cellular networks.

Each of the article dispensing machines may operate without requiring continuous connectivity and communication with the central controller . In one embodiment the central controller only transmits data in response to communication from an article dispensing machine . For example an article dispensing machine may attempt to communicate with the central controller following completion of one or more rental transactions or one or more media article return transactions. In another embodiment the article dispensing machine continues normal operations and transactions even if communication is interrupted or cannot be established with the central controller . In these cases transaction data can be stored locally in the article dispensing machine such as in the article dispensing machine memory storage device until a predetermined time interval elapses when a predetermined number of transactions is reached or until communication with the central controller can be reestablished. Once communication is established with the central controller financial and inventory information can be uploaded and the appropriate servers and databases can be updated.

In one embodiment the article dispensing machine can display only media articles which are physically located at the article dispensing machine . In this way a customer may browse on the user interface only the media articles which are in stock and available to rent at that article dispensing machine . Typically the article dispensing machine possesses media information for the media articles that are currently located in the article dispensing machine . The media information for a media article includes title actor director studio publisher plot synopsis format description parental rating individualized ratings and reviews popularity article type running time genre cover artwork or other information. The article dispensing machine can also store in memory the media information for recently rented media articles that are no longer physically stored in the article dispensing machine . The article dispensing machine can communicate with the central controller when media information about a particular media article is needed. For example when a particular media article is returned to an article dispensing machine that does not have the corresponding media information for that particular media article the article dispensing machine can query the central controller metadata database and or inventory database for the media information. Once the media information is obtained the article dispensing machine may display that particular media article on the user interface as in stock and available to rent.

In another embodiment the article dispensing machine can display media articles that are both physically located and not physically located at the article dispensing machine . In this embodiment media articles which are both available and unavailable to rent can be displayed. A media article may be unavailable to rent if it is not in stock or is in stock but has been reserved for rental. In one example the entire catalog of media articles stored in the inventory database can be displayed on the article dispensing machine . In another example a subset of the entire catalog of media articles can be displayed on the article dispensing machine . The subset of media articles that can be displayed on the article dispensing machine may be determined for example based on geographic location retailer agreements contractual obligations customer rental habits and other criteria. The media articles that can be displayed on the article dispensing machine may include recently rented media articles that are no longer physically stored in the article dispensing machine or media articles that have never been physically in the article dispensing machine . For example media articles that have never been physically in the article dispensing machine may be displayed because those media articles may be available at a nearby article dispensing machine. In this case those media articles may be displayed to the customer so that the customer has an option to obtain those media articles from the nearby article dispensing machine . In this embodiment if a customer attempts to rent a media article that is out of stock reserved for another customer or otherwise cannot be vended at the particular article dispensing machine then that media article can be deemed an unavailable media article. Although a physical unavailable media article cannot be rented from the particular article dispensing machine a digital alternative media selection may be available and substituted for the unavailable media article.

The identification and authentication controller can receive a unique customer identifier that a customer provides to the article dispensing machines during a rental transaction. The unique customer identifier can be a credit or debit card number a hashed version of a credit or debit card number or other unique identifier used for payment and or identification purposes. In the case of hashing of the credit or debit card number the hash function applied to the credit or debit card number is preferably implemented on the article dispensing machines and may be for example a SHA 256 hashing algorithm. The identification and authentication controller can validate the payment capability of a credit or debit card by communicating with the financial server .

A customer may be authenticated to multiple customer profiles and accounts by the identification and authentication controller . The unique customer identifier provided by the customer can authenticate the customer to an existing customer profile and account for the article dispensing machines . The existing customer profile and account can be stored and looked up using the unique customer identifier in the customer profile database that is connected to the identification and authentication controller . The unique customer identifier can also link the existing customer account to a content provider customer account via a connection from the customer profile database to the content provider customer profile database in the content provider backend as shown in . Zero one or more content provider customer accounts may be linked in the customer profile database to the existing customer account for the article dispensing machines . A content provider may include but is not limited to a cable television operator a satellite television service provider an IPTV Internet Protocol television provider an online gaming and digital media delivery service Xbox Live PlayStation Network OnLive etc. a website YouTube Hulu etc. a movie studio a television network a game publisher or a retailer Best Buy Walmart etc. . Media selections available from a content provider may include videos on demand streaming videos downloadable videos streaming video games or downloadable video games. The media selections may be available through the A V display interface that is in communication with the content provider backend .

The customer profile database can contain information related to customers of the article dispensing machines including name mailing and billing addresses email addresses phone and mobile numbers username password payment methods rental history purchase history preferred article dispensing machines movie and video game genre preferences customizations subscriptions parental controls linked content provider accounts content provider subscriptions and entitlements and other data. A rental transaction can be personalized using information from the customer profile database at the article dispensing machines and a website interface . For example only certain genres and titles of DVDs Blu Ray discs or video games could be shown if a customer sets particular preferences that are then stored in the customer profile database . Some of the information stored in the customer profile database may also be stored in the article dispensing machine database . The customer profile database may include a service which facilitates interfacing and communicating with a notification engine and other components of the system backend for example.

The website interface can be interactive and accessible to a customer using web browser software at an electronic device . The website interface may also include a mobile application or consumer electronics device application. Rentable media articles may be searched browsed and reserved on the website interface for receipt at the article dispensing machines . The location of and the inventory at article dispensing machines can be viewed at the website interface . Digital media selections from content providers such as streaming downloadable and on demand media may also be searched browsed and accessed on the website interface . A customer can access their customer profile on the website interface for purposes of verifying and updating their personal information in the customer profile database . For example a customer can link an account they have with a content provider on the website interface by specifying their username password account number and or other identifying information for the content provider account. The system backend can utilize SAML Security Assertion Markup Language OAuth Open Authentication or other protocols to authenticate the identity of the customer at the content provider via a connection from the website interface to the content provider identification and authentication controller in the content provider backend as shown in . If the identifying information matches the content provider account the linkage to the content provider account can be stored in the customer profile database .

An inventory database may contain a catalog of physical media articles that may be rented at the article dispensing machines and reserved at the website interface for later receipt at the article dispensing machines . A catalog of digital media selections available at the content provider can be contained in the metadata database . Metadata for the media articles and media selections are stored in the metadata database including title release date running time chapter information technical details resolution audio options languages etc. format peripheral device requirements number of players online capability actors voice actors director studio publisher developer platform availability of downloadable content episode information genre critic ratings individualized ratings reviews recommendations likes etc. parental ratings MPAA ESRB TV Parental Guidelines etc. description related content media artwork media stills and other information.

Physical media articles that may be rented at the article dispensing machines and digital media selections available at the content provider may be synchronized and mapped to one another by matching their respective metadata. As seen in a synchronization and mapping engine connected to the customer profile database the metadata database and the content provider asset management system in the content provider backend may compare the metadata for the media articles and media selections to determine matches. Metadata in the content provider asset management system for media selections can be compared to metadata in the metadata database to perform the matching. For example a combination of a title release date running time and or actor information can be used to map a media article to a corresponding media selection. In one embodiment proprietary identification codes unique to a media article and a media selection can be used to map the media article to the corresponding media selection. The proprietary identification codes for the media article and the media selection can be stored in the metadata database and the content provider asset management system respectively. Such proprietary identification codes can be assigned to media articles and media selections by third party providers such as Rovi Baseline and AMG.

A media selection at a content provider can be placed in the saved programs queue on the A V display interface as shown in by providing the appropriate instructions to the content provider asset management system in the content provider backend . Queuing a media selection may occur for example when a customer decides to purchase the digital media selection from the content provider in place of a physical media article at an article dispensing machine .

An inventory database can be connected to the article dispensing machine and the metadata database to provide information regarding the availability of media articles in the article dispensing machines . In conjunction with a search engine the inventory database and the metadata database can provide inventory results for media articles and media selections to an A V display interface application on an A V display interface as shown in . Such results may include the availability of physical media articles at the article dispensing machines as well as digital media selections available at a content provider. The results may also be provided to the website interface or other websites operated by a content provider for example. The synchronization and mapping engine can store the information from the content provider asset management system regarding media selections at the content provider in the metadata database . The inventory database can also supply the availability of media articles in the article dispensing machines to the website interface or to other portals such as an application on a mobile device when queried.

A metadata database watcher can monitor the metadata database for changes in metadata related to media articles and media selections. The metadata database watcher can use customer watchlist subscriptions from a customer profile in the customer profile database to determine what changes to monitor. The changes to the metadata can include inventory availability content provider availability release schedules and other information related to a particular title. The customer watchlist subscriptions can be used by the metadata database watcher to monitor these changes in combination with information regarding particular actors directors and or other metadata. When a change corresponding to a customer watchlist subscription is found by the metadata database watcher a notification engine can transmit notifications and details of the change to the customer. The notifications may be sent via email SMS mobile application alerts A V display interface alerts or other electronic channels.

A customer may also subscribe to be notified about new information and new media content related to their favorite actors directors titles studios and or other parameters using customer notification subscriptions. Such information may include information related to live performances television appearances newspaper and magazine articles blogs and other content. A web crawler and data feed can obtain this information by searching pertinent websites and through use of a public API connection to update the metadata database . The data feed in the web crawler and data feed may include for example information that is pushed from an information source or pulled from an information source. The customer can subscribe to this information about their favorites at the website interface for example. The metadata database watcher monitoring the metadata database can detect when there is a new piece of information about a favorite and transmit the desired notifications using the notification engine .

An embodiment of a process for filtering media content based on parental control limits in a customer profile is shown in . The process can result in the transmission of a filtered list of media content such as physical media articles and digital media selections based on one or more parental control limits retrieved from one or more content providers. A user may have set parental control limits at a content provider and the parental control limits may be stored and aggregated in the customer profile with parental control limits that have been set at other content providers. The customer profile may be stored in the customer profile database .

Parental control limits may include but are not limited to a television content rating a film content rating a video game content rating a channel lock a title restriction an actor restriction a time limitation a time of day limitation a functionality limitation a purchase limitation a do not list restriction a content description restriction and or a metadata display restriction. In particular the television parental rating may include the TV Parental Guidelines television content ratings and sub ratings in the United States e.g. TV Y TV Y7 TV Y7 FV TV G TV PG TV 14 and TV MA ratings and L S V and D sub ratings and the Canadian TV Classification System content ratings in Canada e.g. C C8 G PG 14 18 21 and E for English language programs and G 8 13 16 18 and E for French language programs . The film content rating may include the Motion Picture Association of America MPAA film ratings in the United States e.g. G PG PG 13 R and NC 17 and the Canadian film classification ratings in Canada e.g. G PG 14A 18A R and A in provinces other than Quebec and G 13 16 and 18 in Quebec . The video game content rating may include the Entertainment Software Rating Board ESRB video game ratings in the United States Canada and Mexico e.g. EC E E10 T M and AO . A channel lock includes prohibiting the viewing or display of a particular channel or network. A title or actor restriction includes prohibiting viewing or display of a piece of media content that matches part or all of a particular title or actor name respectively. A time limitation includes placing a limit on the amount of time that media content can be viewed while a purchase limitation includes placing a limit on an amount that can be spent or placing a limit on the number of purchases.

A time of day limitation includes prohibiting the listing or viewing of media content based on a day date and or time. A functionality limitation includes prohibiting or restricting a particular type of functionality e.g. the purchase of a piece of media content access to a piece of media content viewing closed captioning etc. A do not list restriction includes prohibiting the listing of media content based on a particular genre channel title actor studio publisher or other metadata of the media content. A content description restriction includes the restricting or prohibiting the listing of a description that accompanies a piece of media content based on a keyword s set by the user. A metadata display restriction includes showing alternate wording e.g. Adult Content in place of showing metadata corresponding to a piece of media content. Metadata which is blocked may include text e.g. title description etc. images e.g. screenshots and or video e.g. trailers . The parental control limits may be implemented individually or in any combination. In addition the parental control limits may vary based on the associated customer profile or account. For example a parent adult account may have more less restrictive parental control limits than the parental control limits in a child account.

At step authentication information may be received at the central controller . The authentication information may allow access to an account at a content provider that supports the setting of parental control limits. The account may include a parent adult account a child account or any other type of account supported by the content provider. The authentication information may include a username and or a password for example. The central controller may authenticate to the content provider at step based on the authentication information received at step . Authentication to the content provider may be through a login to the website of the content provider through an application programming interface API associated with the content provider through a feed from the content provider or through other methods. In one embodiment content providers and the central controller may have each have access to a shared database including parental control limits. The shared database may be part of central database or may be situated remotely from the central controller and the content provider.

The parental control limits that have been set at the content provider may be imported at step . A user such as a parent may have previously set the parental control limits at the content provider. The parental control limits at the content provider may be specific to the type of media content provided by the content provider. For example if the content provider is a cable television operator the parental control limits may include television content ratings and or film content ratings. As another example if the content provider is a streaming or downloadable video game operator the parental control limits may include video game content ratings. The imported parental control limits may be stored at step in the customer profile that is in the customer profile database . The parental control limits from the content providers may be aggregated together when stored at step . The aggregation of the parental control limits may be in a canonical data format that is neutral and encompasses parental control limits applicable for all types of media content. The canonical data format may utilize an XML format for example so that the parental control limits are represented in a standardized form.

In some embodiments the parental control limits may have been previously set by a user at an electronic device such as an Xbox video game console a laptop computer or a desktop computer. The user may have set the parental control limits as master settings through the operating system of the electronic device for access by any applications executing on the electronic device for example. The parental control limits may accordingly be maintained by the electronic device in a central location on behalf of the user. At step the parental control limits may be imported by an application executing on the electronic device from the electronic device and or the operating system of the electronic device . The application may import the parental control limits through an API for example. The application may store the imported parental control limits at step locally and or in the customer profile. The imported parental control limits may also be aggregated together when stored at step .

At step the media content may be filtered based on the parental control limits in the customer profile. The customer profile may include multiple sets of parental control limits from multiple content providers as described above. An embodiment of step in the process is shown in . At step parental control limits can be retrieved from the customer profile. As described above the parental control limits may have been stored in the customer profile at step . An initial list of media content may then be determined at step . The initial list may include a list of available media articles that are distributable from an article dispensing machine . Determining a list of available media articles is discussed in more detail below with reference to . The initial list may also include a list of available media selections from a content provider where the availability of the media selections is based on an access permission in a customer subscription. Determining a list of available media selections is discussed in more detail below with reference to . The initial list of media content may be determined at step in response to a search request browsing request or other request related to finding media content.

At step it is determined whether any of the retrieved parental control limits are in conflict with one another such as when parental control limits from different content providers are set differently. If there is a conflict then at step the conflicts may be resolved so that the most restrictive parental control limit takes precedence. The user can also be informed that there are conflicting parental control limits. For example if the parental control setting from content provider A denotes that R rated movies are allowed to be viewed but the parental control setting from content provider B denotes that only PG 13 movies are allowed to be viewed then the parental control setting from content provider B would take precedence because it is more restrictive. Following step the process continues to step . The process also continues to step if there are no parental control limits in conflict at step .

At step the parental control limits retrieved at step are examined to determine if any of the parental control limits are related to restricting viewing of media content such as a television content rating a film content rating a video game content rating a channel lock a title restriction an actor restriction a time of day limitation or a functionality limitation. If any of the parental control limits are related to restricting viewing of media content at step then the applicable parental control limits can be applied to remove the relevant pieces of media content from the initial list at step . For example if a piece of media content in the initial list such as a television program is rated TV 14 and the parental control limits in the customer profile include a television content rating limit that prohibits viewing of media content that is rated TV 14 or TV MA then that piece of media content will be removed from the initial list. However if a piece of media content in the initial list is rated TV Y TV Y7 TV Y7 FV TV G or TV PG then that piece of media content will not be removed from the initial list. As another example if the parental control limits include a channel lock limit that prohibits viewing of the Showtime cable channel then any media content in the initial list that are shown on Showtime will be removed. As a further example if the parental control limits include a title restriction that prohibits viewing media content with a title that matches Harry Potter then any media content in the initial list that matches the title restriction will be removed. Following step the process continues to step .

The process also continues to step if no parental control limits are related to restricting viewing of media content at step . At step it is determined whether any of the parental control limits retrieved at step relates to restricting the description of media content. Such parental control limits include a do not list restriction a content description restriction or a metadata display restriction. If any of the parental control limits are related to restricting the description of media content at step then the applicable parental control limits can be applied to modify the pieces of media content from the initial list at step . For example if a parental control limit is a do not list restriction that prohibits the listing of media content that is in the horror genre then any media content in the initial list that is in the horror genre will be removed at step . As another example if a parental control limit is a metadata display restriction that prohibits viewing of metadata related to adult content then the description of any media content in the initial list that matches this restriction can be changed so that Adult Content is displayed instead of the original description of the media content. The process continues to step following step .

The process also continues to step if no parental control limits are related to restricting the description of media content at step . At step any other parental control limits that are in the customer profile are applied such as a time limitation or a purchase limitation. The media content from the initial list that has not been removed at step had its description modified at step or was subject to other parental control limits at step can be included in a filtered list that is transmitted at step . The filtered list may be transmitted in place of the initial list. In some embodiments once authenticated to a content provider the central controller may periodically query the content provider in order to detect any changes in the parental control limits at that content provider. If a change in the parental control limits is detected the customer profile in the customer profile database may be updated with the change.

An embodiment of a process for modifying access to media content based on parental control limits in a customer profile stored in the customer profile database is shown in . The process can result in the modification of access to media content such as physical media articles and digital media selections based on parental control limits in the customer profile that have previously been retrieved from one or more content providers. As described above parental control limits may include but are not limited to a television content rating a film content rating a video game content rating a channel lock a title restriction an actor restriction a time limitation a time of day limitation a functionality limitation a purchase limitation a do not list restriction a content description restriction or a metadata display restriction.

At step a unique customer identifier may be received by the central controller . The central controller can match the unique customer identifier to a particular customer profile in the customer profile database . The unique customer identifier could be a credit or debit card number processed through a hash function. The hashed credit or debit card number can be used to look up a customer profile in the customer profile database . The unique customer identifier could also be a username and or password to access the customer profile in the customer profile database . The unique customer identifier may be received from an article dispensing machine or an application running on an electronic device or A V display interface .

At step the central controller can authenticate to a customer profile in the customer profile database using the unique customer identifier. The parental control limits in the customer profile may be retrieved at step . The parental control limits may have previously been stored in the customer profile by using the process described above for example. Each set of the parental control limits may correspond to one or more content providers. The parental control limits at the content provider may be specific to the type of media content provided by the content provider.

At step access to the media content may be modified based on the parental control limits in the customer profile. An embodiment of step in the process is shown in . At step parental control limits can be retrieved from the customer profile. As described above the customer profile may have been authenticated to with the unique customer identifier at step . An initial access list of media content may be determined at step . The initial access list may include a list of available media articles that are distributable from an article dispensing machine . Determining a list of available media articles is discussed in more detail below with reference to . The initial access list may also include a list of available media selections from a content provider where the availability of the media selections is based on an access permission in a customer subscription. Determining a list of available media selections is discussed in more detail below with reference to . The initial access list of media content may be determined at step in response to a search request browsing request or other request related to finding media content.

At step the parental control limits retrieved at step are examined to determine if any of the parental control limits are related to restricting viewing of media content such as a television content rating a film content rating a video game content rating a channel lock a title restriction an actor restriction a time of day limitation or a functionality limitation. If any of the parental control limits are related to restricting viewing of media content at step then viewing of the pieces of media content from the initial access list that violate the applicable parental control limits can be restricted at step . For example if a video game in the initial access list is rated T and the parental control limits in the customer profile include a video game content rating limit that restricts access to video games that is rated T M or AO then access to view or interact with that video game will be modified. The access to the video game could be prohibited or subject to approval by a parent for example. However if a video game in the initial access list is rated EC E or E10 then there will be unrestricted access to that video game. As another example if the parental control limits include an actor restriction that restricts media content starring the actor Charlie Sheen then access to view any media content in the initial access list that matches the actor restriction will be restricted. Restricting access to media content may include prohibiting all or some access to that particular piece of media content. Following step the process continues to step .

The process also continues to step if no parental control limits are related to restricting viewing of media content at step . At step it is determined whether any of the parental control limits retrieved at step relate to restricting the description of media content. Such parental control limits include a do not list restriction a content description restriction or a metadata display restriction. If any of the parental control limits are related to restricting the description of media content at step then the pieces of media content from the initial access list that violate the applicable parental control limits can be modified at step . For example if a parental control limit is a content description restriction that restricts or prohibits listing a description of media content with the keyword profanity then the descriptions of the pieces of media content that match that keyword will be modified at step . The process continues to step following step . The process also continues to step if no parental control limits are related to restricting the description of media content at step . At step any other parental control limits that are in the customer profile are applied such as a time limitation or a purchase limitation.

An embodiment of determining availability of physical media articles is shown in the process of . The process may be implemented as step of or step of if the media content is a physical media article that may be available at an article dispensing machine . The process may be performed alone or in addition to the process described below. At step the location of one or more article dispensing machines can be determined. The location s of the article dispensing machines can be determined based on geographic proximity to the location where the customer or user is located such as based on the address of the customer in the customer profile database . The article dispensing machine locations could also be determined based on a location that is manually entered by a user. The locations of the article dispensing machines that are closest to the originating location may then be determined. The locations may be limited by a radius city town zip code or other limitation. The location of one or more specific article dispensing machines may also be input by a user at step .

At step the inventory database can be queried to determine whether the media article is available at the locations of the article dispensing machines determined at step . If the media article is available at one or more article dispensing machines at step then at step the locations of those article dispensing machines can be stored for use as the initial list determined at step in the process or as the initial access list determined at step in the process . However if the media articles are not available at any article dispensing machine at step then no available locations can be stored at step .

An embodiment of determining availability of digital media selections is shown in the process of including determination of an associated content provider and the availability of the media selections at the associated content provider. The process may be implemented as step of or step of if the media content is a digital media selection that may be available at a content provider. The process may be performed alone or in addition to the process described above. At step a unique customer identifier may be received by the central controller . The central controller can match the unique customer identifier to a particular customer profile in the customer profile database . The unique customer identifier could be a credit or debit card number processed through a hash function. The hashed credit or debit card number can be used to look up a customer profile in the customer profile database . The unique customer identifier may also include a customer provided identification of the associated content provider. The customer could also provide what content providers they are associated with and optionally provide the specific subscription package they subscribe to instead of providing a credit card number or account number. If step is being implemented as part of the process as shown in then step may be omitted if a unique customer identifier has already been received at step . The unique customer identifier could also be a username and or password to access the customer profile in the customer profile database . The unique customer identifier may be received from an article dispensing machine or an application running on an electronic device or A V display interface .

At step the central controller can determine whether there is an associated content provider linked to the customer profile found at step . The customer profile in the customer profile database may contain a linkage to an associated content provider. If there is not a content provider associated with the customer profile at step or if no unique customer identifier is found in the customer profile database at step the customer may provide the linkages of content providers at step . The customer profile in the customer profile database can include information obtained from the content provider customer profile database in the content provider backend such as an account number email address subscription information and other information related to the customer s content provider customer profile.

If there is a content provider associated with the customer identifier at step the process continues to step where subscription information at the content provider for the customer is retrieved from the customer profile database . The customer profile database may contain subscription and entitlement information that was previously received from the content provider customer profile database in the content provider backend . Subscription information at the content provider can include the customer s subscribed service package premium channel content the customer entitled to access zip code and address for possible geographical content restrictions parental authorization and controls for age authentication and other subscriber information. The subscription information may be used by the central controller at step when determining the availability of media selections for the customer at particular content providers. Step is also performed following step when a customer has entered a linkage to a content provider.

At step the central controller determines whether the media selections are available at a content provider that is linked to the customer. In addition to determining whether the media selections are available at a linked content provider the central controller can determine at step whether the customer has permission to access the media selection based on the subscription information in the customer profile database that was previously obtained at step .

A customer may be entitled to access a digital media selection for free such as when the media selection is already available within the customer s subscription package or when the media selection is publicly available. In other cases a customer may only have access to a media selection by providing additional payment such as when the customer s subscription package does not allow access to the media selection or when the media selection is only available at an a la carte content provider. For example if the customer s subscription package allows access to Home Box Office HBO content and the media selection is available through HBO then the customer will have access to the media selection without additional payment. As another example if the customer s subscription package only allows access to Showtime content and the media selection is only available through HBO then the customer will not have access to the media selection. In this case the customer may have the option to upgrade their subscription package to include HBO or utilize an a la carte content provider for an additional payment. As a further example if the customer is a Comcast subscriber and the media selection is available as a free video on demand selection on Comcast then the customer will have access to the media selection without additional payment. However if the media selection is only available through Hulu Plus then the customer will not have access to the media selection unless the customer provides additional payment.

Therefore if the media selection is available at a linked content provider at step then at step the media selections and associated content providers can be stored as the initial list determined at step in the process or as the initial access list determined at step in the process . If the media selection is not available at a linked content provider at step then the central controller can obtain other content provider options if any at step . Other content provider options may include a la carte content providers such as Amazon Instant Video iTunes Store YouTube VUDU and other services that allow a user to individually purchase media without requiring a subscription. Further content provider options that may be obtained at step include retailers that grant rights to a digital media selection in conjunction with the purchase of a physical item e.g. Best Buy Walmart etc. movie studios television networks video game developers and online gaming delivery services Xbox Live PlayStation Network OnLive etc. . For example a video game may be available from an online gaming delivery service for download such as from Xbox Live or the PlayStation Network or for streaming such as from OnLive. If other content providers are available for the media selection the media selection and the associated a la carte content provider s may be stored at step .

Any process descriptions or blocks in figures should be understood as representing modules segments or portions of code which include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process and alternate implementations are included within the scope of the embodiments of the present invention in which functions may be executed out of order from that shown or discussed including substantially concurrently or in reverse order depending on the functionality involved as would be understood by those having ordinary skill in the art.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present invention particularly any preferred embodiments are possible examples of implementations merely set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the invention. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s of the invention without substantially departing from the spirit and principles of the invention. All such modifications are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and the present invention and protected by the following claims.

