---

title: Apparatus and method for a power converter and system having foldback current limit
abstract: A power converter system configured to supply DC power to a load is provided, comprising a power converter device responsive to an AC input voltage and configured to provide an output DC voltage; an output voltage loop controller in operable communication with the power converter; an output current loop controller in operable communication with the power converter; an output power loop controller in operable communication with the power converter; and a foldback controller in operable communication with the power converter. The output voltage loop controller, the output current loop controller, the output power loop controller, and the foldback controller together control the power converter to provide a multi-sloped output characteristic, including constant output voltage in voltage mode, increased output current in a first constant power mode, decreased output current and voltage in a foldback mode, and increasing output current and decreasing output voltage in a second constant power mode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09590524&OS=09590524&RS=09590524
owner: Raytheon Company
number: 09590524
owner_city: Waltham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160115
---
Embodiments disclosed herein generally relate to power supplies and systems. More particularly at least some disclosed embodiment relate to systems methods and device to provide a power converter with foldback current limiting and with reduced probability of dangerous arc flashes.

Electric arcs can occur when ionized air breaks down into plasma that carries a stream of current between conductors or between a conductor and ground. Electric arcs that are large enough and that occur quickly enough are known as arc flashes also referred to as flashovers . An arc fault is a type of electrical explosion or discharge that results from such a low impedance connection through air to ground or another voltage phase in an electrical system. Arc faults generate pressure by expansion due to metal vaporization and rapid heating of air by arc passing through it. An arc creates copper vapor that expands to 67 000 times the volume of solid copper e.g. 1 in3 of copper vaporizes into 1.44 yd3 of vapor . Air in an arc stream heats up to about 35 000 F. Surface of the Sun 8 540 F. . During an arc flash electrical energy can vaporize a metal conductor carrying the electrical energy causing the metal to changes from solid state to gas vapor expanding it with an explosive force.

Arc flashes can cause dangerous explosions. Five to ten arc flash explosions occur in electric equipment every day in the U. S with injuries so severe that the victims require treatment from a special burn center. Moreover arc flash explosions likely cause many more less severe injuries that are not part of this five to ten number because some injured victims are sent only to an ordinary hospital and do not require aid from burn centers. Arc flashes also can cause severe non burn types of injuries. For example a pressure wave from an arc flash has the potential to blow out eardrums or damage lungs and the flash itself emits large doses of infrared and ultraviolet light that can blind temporarily or even permanently.

Power systems for electronic weapons systems present one type of major arc flash hazard. Many electronic weapons systems operate from high power DC sources e.g. 300 to 1000 VDC and can have energy storage in the range of farads. Arcs lengthen and intensify as voltage and current increase so the higher voltages used in these system increases the risk and dangerous consequences of arc flashes. Undersea systems which operate at about 10 kV DC present similar challenges. New electronic warfare systems require megawatts of power in the hundreds of volts to kilovolts voltage range. Use of these types of high DC voltages increases the risk of arc flash. The new radar requirements recognize this risk and include particular requirements for prevention of shocks and burns specifying that the power system must have an arc resistant design implemented via construction techniques and features such as adequate conductor spacing insulated bus work and high bus ratings e.g. 250 kVA . The requirements also specify use of elements to mitigate the consequences of an electrical arc by incorporating pressure relief vents and champers to redirect pressure for bus ratings exceeding the bus rating.

Another type of system that can present a significant arc flash hazard includes systems and locations that use high voltage DC such as industrial computing and telecommunication markets including large server systems and data centers. These systems increasingly use high voltage DC distribution systems to increase accommodate the high power demands of digital processors improve efficiency reduce power distribution losses and reduce the size and weight of the systems. For example in the United States Japan and selected other countries at least some computer manufacturers have adopted 360 VDC as their standard input supply voltage. In addition digital processors continually require more power. Other markets including military markets use 750 1000 VDC distribution systems.

The astronomical growth in data center power use and the huge electrical supply sources they require creates the potential for bigger and more dangerous electric arcs and more places where they can cause damage. Damage in such server systems and data centers can have both a huge human toll and a significant financial cost especially if data is damaged or destroyed . In addition the drive for higher efficiency and lighter power distribution systems is expected to increase the source voltage of other types of systems. Thus it is expected that the problems due to high voltage arc flash will become more prevalent unless techniques are developed to help detect prevent and mitigate for these types of faults.

Different techniques have been developed to prevent or reduce damaging impact from problems like arc flash hazards. Different solutions are applied depending on the levels of current and voltage involved. For example circuit breakers can protect against some types of electrical issues but known circuit breakers can take milliseconds to clear faults and do not give reliable protection against arc flash blast hazard. DC arcs are especially hard to interrupt because the current doesn t naturally go through zero.

For example is a first graph showing exemplary prior art power converter volt ampere V A characteristics at a system interface. As shows the output characteristics in this system have three slopes corresponding to closed feedback loops in the associated power system. The voltage mode is associated with light and nominal loads. The power mode is associated with heavy and pulsed loads. Full output power is generally seen at the point labeled in which is the point with maximum output current and the highest output voltage value associated with that current. After the point of full output power the output characteristics correspond to a so called current mode which is associated with startup conditions and overload conditions. The current mode is associated with the current limit of the associated system. As shows a plasma arc can be sustained at full output power.

Some solutions have been proposed for this problem but at least some known approaches for mitigating arc faults and flashes do not provide the ability to inhibit arcs at the power converter output.

Foldback is one technique that has been used to attempt to limit output current into faults. Reference is now made briefly to which is an illustrative graph showing voltage output vs current output and knee current in an exemplary foldback system. When the conventional foldback method is employed if an overload condition exists the output voltage and current reduce to safe levels. As can be seen from the curve in the graph of should an overload occur the supply will provide current up its current limit point aka knee and then the output current will fold back to a lower value as the output voltage reduces towards zero. This technique is employed in some linear power supplies because it reduces the strain on the supply s internal power devices to minimum. Depending upon the design recovery from a fold back current limit condition can be automatic or after a built in time delay when the overload condition is removed.

For example one prior art patent describes a method that uses triple sloped output V I characteristics to ensure power and current sharing see commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 6 856 283 B2 Method and Apparatus for Power System for Phased Array Radar which patent is incorporated by reference . At least some of the methods systems and apparatuses described in the 283 patent are used for example in a 300 VDC radar system in the U.S. Navy Zumwalt class destroy and in the and CVN class ships Dual Band Radar CVN as used by the U.S. Navy refers to nuclear powered aircraft carriers used with fixed wing aircraft .

One drawback of fold back current limiting is that if the supply turns on into a heavy capacitive load the power supply could latch up trigger an inadvertent short circuit along a low impedance path at a low current instead of charging the output to full voltage. The problem is with systems running at very high voltages e.g. 700 1000 VDC and up the low current combined with the relatively high output voltage still results in a lot of output power. For example referring to the Arc crosses the line of the constant current at a first output voltage V I. As can be seen in if the output voltage is already a high voltage the power at point V I corresponding to Current I B can still correspond to enough output power to cause dangerous arc flashes.

With the foldback limit as shown via the dotted line in the foldback limit reduces current for the same voltage note that at Voltage V I

Even though foldback current limits help to impede inception of plasma arcs at dangerous levels there are still some limitations with conventional foldback systems. Conventional foldback systems have some limitations. For example for applications with high start up current levels such as those with high capacitive loads e.g. a large capacitor bank as is found in some high voltage power distribution systems foldback circuits may be a potential problem if the current demand at startup exceeds the predetermined foldback current limit set point. In that situation the device or system requiring current may not start up or may start up then immediately shut down or the device could latch up at a low current instead of charging the output to full voltage.

Thus for systems running at very high DC voltages the foldback approach does not necessarily always ensure safe operation because with 1000 VDC source or higher the source arc must be extended to much greater length than for 300 VDC systems until the voltage will not support it

In one embodiment disclosed herein a solution is proposed that provides both improved arc flash resistance and the ability to feed charge up large capacitive loads. In this embodiment the power converter system is configured to be controlled to shift into a foldback mode after knee current is reached to cut down power that is available to a potential arc and the power converter system is controlled to have a second power mode corresponding to a fourth slope on the output V A curve where e this second power mode which resembles a fold forward mode enables the power converter system to provide more current at low voltage and low power for the initial charge of capacitive loads.

In one embodiment a power converter system is provided the power converter system configured to supply direct current DC power to a load where the power converter system comprises a power converter device responsive to an alternating current AC input voltage and configured to provide an output DC voltage an output voltage loop controller in operable communication with the power converter an output current loop controller in operable communication with the power converter an output power loop controller in operable communication with the power converter and a foldback controller in operable communication with the power converter. The output voltage loop controller the output current loop controller the output power loop controller and the foldback controller together control the power converter to provide a multi sloped output characteristic wherein the power converter provides a substantially constant output voltage when in a voltage mode controlled by the voltage loop controller an increasing output current while output voltage decreases in a first constant power mode controlled by the power loop controller wherein the output current is permitted to increase up to a first predetermined current limit point defined for the power converter a decreasing output current and decreasing output voltage in a foldback mode controlled by the foldback controller the foldback mode occurring after the output current reaches the first predetermined current limit point and an increasing output current and decreasing output voltage in a second power mode controlled by the power loop controller wherein the output current is permitted to increase so long as the output voltage remains below a first predetermined charge limit threshold.

In one embodiment the foldback controller is implemented using the current loop controller such that the power converter system is implemented using three controller loops. In one embodiment the foldback controller is implemented such that the power converter system is implemented using four controller loops including a separate foldback loop controller.

In one embodiment the second power mode is controlled to provide an increasing current at decreasing voltage and decreasing power wherein the combination of increasing current decreasing voltage and decreasing power is configured to be sufficient for initial charge up of a predetermined capacitive load in operable communication with an output of the power converter.

In one embodiment the power converter further comprises a current sense circuit configured to sense when the power converter has reached a predetermined maximum current output threshold wherein when the predetermined maximum current threshold is reached the foldback controller is configured to cause the power converter to provide output current and voltage in accordance with the foldback mode.

In one embodiment the power converter is configured to dynamically monitor at least one of output voltage and output current and to dynamically define at least one threshold for going into at least one of voltage mode first power mode foldback mode and second power mode based at least in part on the at least one dynamically defined threshold.

In one embodiment the power converter is configured to dynamically monitor output current to determine whether a first predetermined overload condition has occurred and if the overload condition has occurred the foldback controller is configured to cause the power converter to go into foldback mode.

In one embodiment the power converter is configured to dynamically monitor at least one of output current and output voltage during foldback mode to determine when a first predetermined threshold of output voltage and output current has been reached the first predetermined threshold corresponding to a condition wherein the output power is at a predetermined safe level configured so that an arc flash occurring at that output power would be below a second predetermined threshold.

In one embodiment the power converter comprises a series resonant converter SRC having current limiting circuitry configured to limit output current if at least one of an overload and a fault condition occurs in the SRC. In one further embodiment the power converter further comprises an overload sense circuit configured to detect when an overload or fault condition occurs in the SRC and to generate a corresponding output current feedback signal for the foldback loop controller wherein the foldback controller defines a threshold for controlling foldback mode based at least in part on the output current feedback signal.

In another embodiment the power converter further comprises an output current limiting circuit configured to provide an overload current feedback signal and wherein the output current loop controller is configured be responsive to sensed values of the power converter output current and overload current feedback signal and to modify its output current by adding a predetermined fraction of the overload current feedback signal to its current loop feedback control signal. For example in one embodiment the predetermined fraction ranges from about 0.3 to 0.7.

In another aspect a method is provided for supplying power from a power converter to a load the power converter configured to provide an output voltage and an output current. The method comprises 

In one embodiment the second power mode corresponds to a fold forward power mode. In one embodiment the method further comprises controlling the second power mode to provide an increasing current at decreasing voltage and decreasing power wherein the combination of increasing current decreasing voltage and decreasing power is configured to be sufficient for initial charge up of a predetermined capacitive load in operable. communication with an output of the power converter. In one embodiment the method further comprises sensing when the power converter has reached a predetermined maximum current output threshold wherein when the predetermined maximum current threshold is reached the foldback controller is configured to cause the power converter to provide output current and voltage in accordance with the foldback mode.

In a further embodiment the method further comprises dynamically monitoring power converter output current and the overload current signal to determine whether a first predetermined overload condition has occurred and if the overload condition has occurred controlling the power converter using the foldback controller to cause the power converter to go into foldback mode.

In another embodiment the power converter comprises a series resonant converter SRC wherein the method further comprises detecting when an overload or fault condition occurs in the SRC and generating a corresponding output current feedback signal for the foldback loop controller wherein the foldback loop controller defines a threshold for controlling foldback mode based at least in part on the output current feedback signal.

In a further aspect a power system is provided for providing power to a common load. The power system comprises 

a plurality of power converters operably coupled in parallel to a common DC power bus to which one or more loads may be connected each respective power converter comprising 

wherein the output voltage loop controller the output current loop controller the output power loop controller and the foldback controller together control the power converter to provide a multi sloped output characteristic wherein the power converter provides 

In one embodiment each respective power converter further comprises a respective output current limiting circuit configured to provide a respective overload current feedback signal and wherein the output current loop controller is configured be responsive to sensed values of the power converter output current and overload current feedback signal and to modify its respective output current by adding a predetermined fraction of the respective overload current feedback signal to its respective current loop feedback control signal.

The drawings are not to scale emphasis instead being on illustrating the principles and features of the disclosed embodiments. In addition in the drawings like reference numbers indicate like elements.

At least some embodiments described herein are usable to increase arc flash resistance of power devices especially high power converters and systems combined with the ability to feed large capacitive loads. In one embodiment described further herein the power converter and system with foldback as described herein implements features that include output volt ampere characteristics with four slopes and two power limits including a voltage mode a power mode a foldback mode and a second power mode alternately termed a current mode and or a fold forward mode . In one embodiment described further herein a power converter is provided which is implemented as a series resonant converter SRC wherein the SRC uses current sensing of clamping diodes to detect overload and or fault conditions and to generate an overload fault feedback signal usable to control operation including output power voltage and current for the SRC. In addition in one embodiment the SRC adds an overload fault feedback signal the output current feedback signal to dynamically provide and or define at least one current foldback limit.

In one embodiment described further herein a power converter is provided which has quad slope characteristics that are achieved by three or four feedback loops. In a further embodiment multiple power converters with quad slope characteristics are operably coupled together in parallel to feed a common load.

In one embodiment described further herein a method is provided for operating a power system and or a power converter in four modes including

In particular referring to the output V A characteristic in the graph shows a quad slope characteristics where the power system having this characteristic is configured to be controlled to shift into a foldback mode after knee current is reached at point to cut down power that is available to a potential arc and the power system is further controlled to have a second power mode corresponding to a fourth slope on the output V A curve also referred to as current mode or fold forward mode where this second power mode enables the power converter system to provide more current at low voltage and low power for the initial charge of capacitive loads.

Referring briefly to a power system implemented in accordance with at least one embodiment includes a controller in operable communication with a power converter . The power converter receives an AC input at an AC DC converter e.g. a rectifier circuit so that an input AC voltage is converted to a DC voltage provided to the power stage . One or more sub circuits not shown in the power stage cooperate to provide an output current at a predetermined rated voltage to be provided to a load such as power distribution system which then distributes the power to one or more pieces of electrical equipment that require power. The power converter includes one or more sensors for monitoring current and voltage including an output voltage sense circuit that senses output voltage via a sensor S an output current sense that senses output current via a sensor S and an overload current sense which senses current through current limiting components e.g. clamping diodes or other current limiting semiconductor components as will be appreciated other resonant topologies have clamping circuits that perform similar functions . For simplicity the system shown in omits elements such as shielding filtering ground transformers etc. which are well understood in the art.

The controller can be implemented entirely in hardware entirely in software or using a mix of hardware and software as will be appreciated. Optionally as shown in a computer system can be used to assist in performing some or all of the control functions the computer is described further in . In the embodiment of the controller includes a current control block a voltage control block a power control block and an optional foldback control block not used in all embodiments . A comparison and control block receives the outputs of each of the current control block the voltage control block the power control block and optionally the foldback control block and depending on which of these control blocks is enabled generates a set of control signals in that are received by and used in the power converter to determine the current and voltage that are output to the load . This is explained father herein. In one embodiment a current summing block receives information about both the output current level from output current sense and from the clamped current limited level from clamping sense also referred to herein as the overload current sense signal . This current summing block in certain embodiments determines the sum of the clamping diodes current from sensor and the output current from sensor modifies the current loop by adding a predetermined fraction of an overload current feedback signal to the current signal provided to the current loop control .

Referring to the voltage mode and first power mode in are analogous to the same modes as shown in the V A graph of . At the start no load point block the voltage Vis at its maximum and the no load current Iis at zero. Thus output current and output voltage are zero block . At this point the energy storage device needs to be charged.

When the load is connected block the controller begins its monitoring of the operation of power converter . Between point and point power needs of the load are relatively low e.g. light and nominal loads . In at least one embodiment e.g. an embodiment implemented using a series resonant converter SRC or other circuit with current limiting as part of this monitoring block a fraction of the current that is limited e.g. clamp current is added to the output current block . For example at the beginning of the charge up process when the output voltage is low the converter has high clamp currents that dominate the composite feedback signal V. As the output voltage increases the output current is reduced to maintain the composite signal constant negative slope of the V A characteristics . At the same time the clamp currents are reduced and at one point the output current has to increase to satisfy demands of the error amplifier positive slope or the foldback region of the V A curves . This is explained further herein.

Thus in voltage mode the first voltage mode slope is a negative slope that corresponds to a condition where the power needs of the load are generally lower. In at least some embodiments this slope can be either negative or nearly zero. In at least some embodiments for example a slightly negative slope allows the ability to share current between parallel connected converters This first voltage mode covers conditions between zero load at point at V I to full load at point V I . In between point and point so long as the output current Iis between 0 and the first threshold I and so long as the output voltage Vis between the no load voltage Vand the first voltage threshold V as shown in then voltage mode control is activated blocks and . In at least some embodiments the voltage mode can comprise a substantially constant output voltage out of power converter e.g. a slope that is close to zero between point . In one embodiment during voltage mode there amount of voltage droop i.e. the intentional drop in output voltage as a voltage source drives a load advantageously is less than 10 of the no load voltage V output from the voltage source. In one exemplary embodiment Vis about 315 VDC and Vis about 90 of the VNL voltage in this case about 284 VDC . These numbers are not of course limiting. As noted elsewhere at least some embodiments described herein are applicable to voltage sources that provide 1000 VDC.

While the controller is controlling the power converter via voltage control to be in voltage mode the controller is also monitoring at least periodically block the output voltage out of the power converter via a signal from the output voltage sense which is fed back to the voltage control block the power control block and optionally the foldback control block . When the output voltage feedback signal coming to the voltage loop control drops below V block which corresponds to an increased load e.g. additional equipment requiring power is coupled to the power distribution system then the converter goes into the first power mode in which controller shifts control of the power converter to a power loop control block which attempts to maintain nearly constant power at the output of the power converter . The power control controls the power converter enabling the power converter to adjust output voltage Vand output current Ito provide a substantially constant output power as shown by the constant and linear power slope shown in the first power mode of . This is useful for power delivered to heavy and pulse loads such as radar systems large banks of data servers and other high voltage DC systems as described herein. In addition those of skill in the art will appreciate that other types of constant power mode are possible in this first power mode as detailed in the incorporated by reference 283 patent.

Thus the first threshold point of knee current labeled in V Ifor the first threshold corresponds to the start of the first power mode in which the load requires significant amounts of power. This portion of the V A slope which has a negative slope continues until the second knee point occurring at the second threshold and corresponding to V I. The second knee point occurs at a predetermined current limit for the power converter . The output power and voltage allow a predetermined current limit to be determined. For example in one exemplary embodiment the predetermined current limit is set to within 110 120 of the nominal power divided by the nominal voltage. first power mode in one embodiment corresponds to a first point of an overload limit threshold labeled in which is a voltage limit point for the voltage mode portion of the V A curve. The second knee point corresponds to both a current limit point threshold labeled in and the end of the power mode .

During power mode the power converter is able to supply a continuous level of output power up to this current limit point which in corresponds to the second threshold i.e. knee 2 at point . For example a current limit point in some systems is predetermined to be 10 to 20 over maximum rated current. During this first power mode the power converter system is controlled via power control to provide substantially constant output power up to its current limit point . However beyond the overload point there is a first reduction in voltage during power mode from Vto V. This voltage reduction avoids overloading the power converter and damaging the load.

In prior art power converter systems such as that of the aforementioned 283 patent and as illustrated in when the power converter reaches its knee current threshold corresponding to maximum output current the converter was controlled to be in a current mode providing a substantially constant current output. However for very high voltage systems as noted previously this increases the dangerousness of arc flashes with the possibility of arc flashes occurring at full output power. Conventional foldback is employed in linear power supplies e.g. medium voltage supplies because it reduces the strain on the supply s internal power devices to minimum. However as noted herein one drawback of conventional foldback current limiting is that if the supply turns on into a heavy capacitive load it could latch up short at a reduced current before reaching its full output voltage. The shorts are less dangerous with lower voltage power systems but with high voltage power systems including systems running between 300 1000 VDC the latch up could result in dangerous arc flashes.

Thus the foldback mode as shown in in combination with the second power mode also referred to as current mode and or fold forward mode is used to help reduce output power. The foldback mode reduces power that could be delivered to a fault e.g. a short circuit fault and goes from the current limit of the power converter system point in to its charge limit point in in a positive slope. Advantageously in at least one embodiment at least one of the current limit point and or charge limit point are dynamically determined and adaptively controlled based at least in part on continuously sensing output current output voltage and or an overload feedback signal from the power converter system. For example U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 839 201 and 8 076 967 both entitled Integrated Smart Power Switch and both hereby incorporated by reference describe principles of power systems that include adaptive control features and it will be appreciated that the principles described in these patents can be adapted to provide adaptive controls to at least some of the embodiments described herein. For example in one embodiment a system can be configured to include adaptive control capable of dynamically adjusting one or more output characteristics including threshold points. This is explained further herein.

Accordingly referring still to when the output voltage and output current reach the second knee current threshold which is detected by monitoring the VDC feedback signal block then the power converter is controlled by controller to go into foldback mode block in which output current is controlled to be less than I maximum current limit which can be the maximum current limit of the power converter or some other maximum current limit which can be predetermined or dynamically determined and greater than I which is the charge limit point . Note that shows three feedback loops and an optional fourth feedback loop the foldback control . The waveforms of correspond to a three loop implementation of providing the four modes of i.e. not using the optional foldback control loop of e.g. as shown in but at least one embodiment also shows a four loop implementation of providing the four modes of e.g. as shown in and in the waveforms of .

This control of foldback mode in one embodiment is based at least in part on the values of the VDC feedback signal the IDC feedback signal and the IDC feedback signal as well as for SRC circuits the resonant current sense signal e.g. see the signal labeled in discussed further herein where the IDC feedback signal corresponds to a signal from overload protection circuitry in the power converter such as clamping diodes that provides an indication of overload and or fault conditions. Thus in some embodiments the combination of current loop control voltage loop control and power loop control are responsive to the voltage output feedback signal the current output feedback signal and a sensed current output from clamp diodes or other current limit circuits are used to control foldback mode . In some embodiments an additional foldback loop control block is responsive to the voltage output feedback signal and the current output feedback signal to control foldback mode . This is shown in one embodiment in which is a block diagram showing the additional foldback loop where the added foldback loop uses information only from the clamping diodes current sense. As will be appreciated the operation of the system shown in is substantially similar to that of except for the addition of the added on foldback loop which is in the loop where Iis routed through the clamp current conditioning block to become feedback signal which is compared to a predetermined foldback loop FL reference signal via FL Error Amplifier where the difference is then provided to the PWM Foldback Mode Comparator which outputs its signal to OR gate to be routed as applicable back as an appropriate gate drive signal as will be appreciated. In the example embodiment of the added on foldback loop uses only the clamping diodes current sense e.g. I which is routed to clamp current conditioning block . It will be appreciated that there are other ways to implement control of foldback as well.

Referring still to and the example of a triple loop embodiment at the current limit point start of foldback mode block the power converter system is controlled so that there is reduction in both voltage and current foldback mode until the output voltage reaches the foldback mode threshold point corresponding to V I. blocks . In one embodiment an optimum value of the foldback mode threshold point is selected based at least in part on system and load specific considerations. For example for enhanced safety the threshold point can be selected to be lower in value. In contrast for improved ability to operate with capacitive or battery loads the threshold may be selected to be higher. It may be desirable to avoid threshold points at extremes. For example in one embodiment consider a foldback mode threshold point is selected to be relatively close to the first threshold point near the end of the power mode. In this example the converter will start with any capacitive load but will deliver excessive current into a dead short. In another embodiment consider a foldback mode threshold point that is selected to be close to zero voltage. In this example the converter will reduce the overload power but will not be able to start when the load is capacitive.

During foldback mode the controller controls the power converter to reduce output power by reducing output voltage and output current. Foldback mode is useful if an overload condition exists by controlling the power converter output voltage and output current so that they reduce to safe levels levels that reduce possibility of dangerous arc flash and that reduce possibility of damage to power converter or other power system components . As shows should an overload occur the supply will provide current up its current limit point aka knee and then the output current will fold back to a lower value as the output voltage reduces towards the second threshold point . This is shown in greater detail in which is a first exemplary graph showing reduction in power delivered to an arc fault in accordance with a fourth disclosed embodiment using the embodiments of with the quad slope configuration. Referring briefly to the Arc crosses the theoretical line of the constant current at a first output voltage V I. As can be seen in because the output voltage is reduced for both Arc and Arc the possibility of dangerous arc flashes is significantly reduced as compared to just foldback alone because Arc and Arc occur at greatly reduced power levels.

Unlike in the foldback configuration of or as described in the 283 patent the output voltage in power converter is not permitted to drop all the way to zero while still reducing output current. Rather in accordance with at least some embodiments described herein including those in once output voltage drops to V the charge limit and output current has dropped to I the power converter is controlled to recognize that its output power has by point dropped to a level that would reduce the probability of a dangerous arc flash.

Referring still to at the charge limit point i.e. the point where initial charging of a capacitive load is finished at where voltage is at Vand current is at I the power converter system is controlled to go into a second power mode also referred to herein as a current mode or fold forward mode . This second power mode has negative slope permitting increased output current while output voltage continues to decrease blocks where output current is increased as output voltage decreases up to the fourth threshold which corresponds to zero output voltage at point V I . The second power mode current mode provides increased current at low voltage and low power to enable initial charge up of capacitive loads e.g. the energy storage devices which are in some embodiments batteries or banks of capacitors etc. . The fold forward mode also called second power mode is controlled at least in part by the current loop control in the three loop configuration because the feedback signal of the current loop control combines the DC current i.e. I and the overload sense current power loop control . In addition by controlling the power converter so that its output voltage reduces towards zero while its current increases blocks this fold forward current feature can be useful when driving motors pumps or highly capacitive loads by helping to overcome the electrical inertia of these loads. Once the load reaches its steady state condition or is removed or disconnected the power converter can be controlled to recover from the second power mode .

Referring to in the simulated version of system of advantageously the triple loop three control loop version the output voltage V is at its largest substantially constant value in voltage mode . In this graph the output current is set for a constant current periodic pulsed load. When the system is in power mode the output voltage Vis controlled and decreases slightly while maintaining constant power until the sensed current indicates at point in that a potential short or overload condition is reached. From point onward towards the right of the graph of the output voltage Vdecreases towards zero.

Reference is now made briefly to the three or four control loop embodiment of . In the block diagram of the controller has three or four channels. This corresponds in the three control loop embodiment of to the controller and in the four control loop embodiment of to the controller . Each respective channel comprises an error amplifier e.g. error amplifiers and of and error amplifiers and of with appropriate compensation circuits impedances Z1 X and Z2 X where X corresponds to the loop number feedback conditioning e.g. in the current feedback conditioning block and voltage feedback conditioning block in the current feedback conditioning block voltage feedback conditioning block and clamped current conditioning block as well as processing networks as appropriate for each channel and a respective PWM comparator In these are the PWM current mode capacitor PWM voltage mode comparator and PWM power mode comparator in these are PWM current mode capacitor PWM voltage mode comparator and PWM power mode comparator and PWM foldback mode comparator .

The outputs of the comparators are connected to an OR gate e.g. OR gate on OR gate in . For each channel one input of each comparator is connected to the channel s error amplifier another input is connected to a ramp generator e.g. ramp generator of ramp generator of common to all channels. The comparator with the lowest input signal from its respective error amplifier controls the pulse width at the output of the OR gate.

Referring briefly to the waveforms of which correspond to a converter with a pulsed load and capacitive energy storage at time voltage control signal ctrlV is low other signals ctrlP and ctrl I are high and Vis at its initial value approximately 300 V . This corresponds to the nominal output voltage and zero current. When a pulsed load is applied that exceeds the rated power of the converter the output voltage drops and after approximately 0.05 millisecond ms the current loop driven by the sum of the output current and the overload current sense is in control. From 0.2 to 0.65 ms. the converter is in foldback mode. From 0.65 to 1.1 ms. the converter is in the constant current mode. At the end of this interval from 1 to 1.1 ms. the converter voltage and current are high enough to enable to power control signal ctrlP to move down as shown in . From 1.1 to 1.25 ms this signal power control signal ctrlP is low and the power loop controls the converter i.e. converter is in Power Mode . At the end of the interval the voltage control signal comes down and assumes control i.e. converter is in Voltage Mode because the output voltage V is restored to its initial value.

In another disclosed embodiment the quad slope V A characteristics of and the system of and the control method of are applied to a power converter implemented using a series resonant converter see . Referring to a basic SRC circuit that is usable for this purpose is shown.

Referring to the basic SRC does not need an output DC inductor. The SRC has in one embodiment output rectifiers with voltage rating of less than twice the output. Thus output current may build up in one switching cycle enabling fast dynamic response e.g. changing direction of power flow . The SRC has in one embodiment soft switched operation with high switching frequency and high efficiency. The SRC absorbs circuit parasitics leakage inductance transformer capacitance etc. into main circuit elements and the SRC can be manufactured consistently with low cost components and processes.

Referring again to compared to the basic SRC controller of in the three loop controller the voltage and power loops remain unchanged. The current loop is modified by adding a fraction of the clamped diodes currents to the output current see current feedback conditioning block and the summing block of where the fraction of Iis a function of a predetermined constant k. In at least some embodiments k ranges from 0.5 to 1 1.5. As will be appreciated the value of k is application specific. For example higher values of k increase the weight of the overload current in the overall feedback signal. A higher feedback signal reduces the output current. Lower values of k reduce the overall feedback signal. Basing current control on both sensed output current and sensed clamped current helps to better control current output by helping to detect potential overcurrent conditions and or short circuits via the measurement of clamped current .

The power converter and controller system of is adapted in one embodiment to form a power system comprising multiple converters. For example is a system block diagram of a power system comprising multiple power converters through which are functionally similar to the power converter of connected in parallel under the control of a power system controller which is functionally similar to the controller of in accordance with an eighth embodiment. The plurality of power converters each are configured to provide DC output to a power bus that feeds a plurality of capacitor banks through or other energy storage devices where at least a portion of the capacitor banks are operably coupled to a common load which in this example is a power distribution system . Each respective power converter is configured and controlled via the power controller to be able to provide multi slope e.g. quad slope Volt Amp V A output in a manner similar to that discussed in connection with the power converter of .

As is understood in the art the plurality of power converters are operably coupled in parallel between the multiphase transformer and the DC power bus where the DC power bus is in operable communication with respective pair of conductor lines from each power converter . In at least one embodiment the DC power bus is configured to provide a high output voltage up to 1000 VDC depending on the needs of the common load . In addition as will be appreciated for simplicity the power system does not show all components that might be necessary or useful in such a system including but not limited to such as shielding filters signal conditioners grounding etc.

The plurality of power converters provide to the power controller current and or voltage feedback signals appropriate during the mode of operation e.g. voltage mode first power mode foldback mode second power mode etc. as discussed previously in connection with that are based on sensed output current and output voltage out of the respective power converter . Based on the values of the current and or voltage feedback signals the power controller provides control signals to one or more of the plurality of power converters to control their respective output voltages and or output currents as appropriate to control the operation of the respective power converter as needed during the mode of operation. Optionally one or more computer systems are in operable communication with the power controller to help perform one or more of its functions. It will be appreciated however that a computer system is not necessary for all embodiments and that the power system can be configured to operate using entirely analog circuits entirely digital logic circuits various custom power control devices combinations of these etc. In addition it will be appreciated that the common load can be any type of system that requires power including radar systems industrial systems military systems data centers telecommunications centers etc.

In the example embodiment of a multiphase transformer provides alternating current AC input to the plurality of power converters through . An example of a multiphase transformer which is suitable for use as the multiphase transformer is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 424 552 the teachings of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. The disclosed embodiments are not however limited to this transformer. The use of other types of multiphase transformers is considered to be within the scope of the disclosed embodiments.

One or more embodiments of the invention could be adapted to work in many different types of power systems including but not limited to the aforementioned 283 patent as well as in U.S. Pat. No. 8 072 093 Intelligent Power System issued Dec. 6 2011 inventors Boris S. Jacobson et al. which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

As the above descriptions for demonstrate at least some of the embodiments described herein provide ways to control and operate a power converter and or power system. As noted above any or all of the above described embodiments can be performed using software and or hardware or combinations of software and hardware. In at least one embodiment a computer system is used to help implement some or all of the embodiments described herein especially the method of

For example is a block diagram of a computer system usable with at least some embodiments including at least the system of and the method of in accordance with one embodiment. shows a block diagram of a computer system usable for providing some or all of the functionality described herein. For example the computer system can be used to some or all of the controller the power distribution system as well as the method of as will be appreciated. The computer system also can be used to implement all or part of any of the methods equations function blocks modules algorithms processes and or calculations described herein.

Referring again to the computer system of systems and methods in accordance with at least some embodiments can be implemented using any type of computer system running any one or more types of operating systems. Exemplary types of computer systems on which at least some embodiments can be embodied include any system or device having a processor or equivalent processing functionality installed or embedded including but not limited to a desktop computer personal computer PC laptop computer notebook computer tablet computer handheld computer netbook personal digital device including but not limited to personal digital assistant PDA mobile communications device including but not limited to radio conventional telephone mobile cellular telephone smart phone combination phone tablet computer music playing device electronic reading device server workstation and interconnected group of computers as well as any other type of device having a microprocessor installed or embedded thereto such as a field programmable gate array FPGA .

The exemplary computer system of includes a central processor associated memory for storing programs and or data an input output controller a disk controller a network interface a display device one or more input devices a fixed or hard disk drive unit a removal storage device drive optional optionally a backup storage device e.g. a tape drive unit not shown and a data bus coupling these components to allow communication therebetween.

The central processor can be any type of microprocessor such as a PENTIUM family processor made by Intel of Santa Clara Calif. The display device can be any type of display such as a liquid crystal display LCD plasma display cathode ray tube display CRT light emitting diode LED and the like capable of displaying in whole or in part any desired information. The input device can be any type of device capable of providing the desired inputs such as keyboards numeric keypads touch screens pointing devices switches styluses and light pens. The network interface can be any type of a device card adapter or connector that provides the computer system with network access to a computer or other device such as a printer. For example the network interface can enables the computer system to connect to a computer network such as the Internet. Other computer accessories that are now known or developed in the future e.g. microphones cameras speakers biometric access control devices such as fingerprint scanners etc. although not illustrated in the block diagram of can of course be included as part of the computer system .

Computer systems embodying at least some embodiments described herein need not include every element shown in and that equivalents to each of the elements are intended to be included within the spirit and scope of the described embodiments.

In at least one embodiment one or more computer programs define at least some of the operational capabilities of the computer system . These programs can be loaded into the computer system in many ways such as via the hard disk drive the removable storage driver or the network interface e.g. wirelessly via the Internet etc. . Alternatively the programs can reside in a permanent memory portion e.g. a read only memory ROM chip of the main memory . In another embodiment the computer system can include specially designed dedicated hard wired electronic circuits that perform all functions described herein without the need for instructions from computer programs.

In at least one embodiment the computer system is networked to other devices such as in a client server or peer to peer system. The computer system can for example be a client system a server system or a peer system. In addition at least one embodiment is implemented at the server side and receives and responds to requests from a client such as a reader application running on a user computer.

The client can be any entity such as a the computer system or specific components thereof e.g. terminal personal computer mainframe computer workstation hand held device electronic book personal digital assistant peripheral etc. or a software program running on a computer directly or indirectly connected or connectable in any known or later developed manner to any type of computer network such as the Internet. A client may also be a notebook computer a handheld computing device e.g. a PDA an Internet appliance a telephone an electronic reader device or any other such device connectable to the computer network.

The server can be any entity such as the computer system a computer platform an adjunct to a computer or platform or any component thereof such as a program that can respond to requests from a client. The server also may include a display supporting a graphical user interface GUI for management and administration and an Application Programming Interface API that provides extensions to enable application developers to extend and or customize the core functionality thereof through software programs including Common Gateway Interface CGI programs plug ins servlets active server pages server side include SSI functions and the like.

In addition software embodying at least some embodiments resides in an application running on the computer system . At least one embodiment is embodied in a computer readable program medium usable with the general purpose computer system . At least one embodiment is embodied in a data structure stored on a computer or a computer readable program medium. At least one embodiment is embodied in an application programming interface API or a user interface. In addition at least one embodiment is embodied in a data structure.

In the Figures of this application in some instances a plurality of system elements or method blocks may be shown as illustrative of a particular system element and a single system element or method block may be shown as illustrative of a plurality of a particular systems elements or method blocks. It should be understood that showing a plurality of a particular element or block is not intended to imply that a system or method implemented in accordance with the invention must comprise more than one of that element or block nor is it intended by illustrating a single element or block that the invention is limited to embodiments having only a single one of that respective elements or blocks. In addition the total number of elements or blocks shown for a particular system element or method is not intended to be limiting those skilled in the art can recognize that the number of a particular system element or method blocks can in some instances be selected to accommodate the particular user needs.

Also in the Figures for drawings flow charts and or flow diagrams illustrating methods or processes rectangular blocks are processing blocks that can represent one or more instructions or groups of instructions such as computer software instructions. The diamond shaped blocks are decision blocks that one or more instructions or groups of instructions such as computer software instructions that affect the execution of the computer software instructions represented by the processing blocks. Alternatively the processing and decision blocks represent actions performed by functionally equivalent circuits such as a digital signal processor circuit a microcontroller or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC . Further actions and blocks can be implemented using combinations of hardware and software.

The drawings flow charts block diagrams and flow diagrams do not depict the syntax of any particular programming language. Rather the drawings flow charts block diagrams and flow diagrams flow illustrate the functional information one of ordinary skill in the art requires to fabricate circuits and or to generate computer software to perform the processing required in accordance with the present invention. Note that many routine program elements such as initialization of loops and variables and the use of temporary variables are not shown. It will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that unless otherwise indicated herein the particular sequence of steps described is illustrative only and can be varied without departing from the spirit of the invention. Thus unless otherwise stated the steps described herein are unordered meaning that when possible the steps can be performed in any convenient or desirable order.

Additionally the software used to implement all or part of the invention may be embodied in a computer program product that includes a computer useable medium. For example such a computer usable medium can include a readable memory device such as a hard drive device a CD ROM a DVD ROM or a computer diskette having computer readable program code segments stored thereon. The computer readable medium can also include a communications link either optical wired or wireless having program code segments carried thereon as digital or analog signals.

In describing the embodiments of the invention illustrated in the figures specific terminology e.g. language phrases product brands names etc. is used for the sake of clarity. These names are provided by way of example only and are not limiting. The invention is not limited to the specific terminology so selected and each specific term at least includes all grammatical literal scientific technical and functional equivalents as well as anything else that operates in a similar manner to accomplish a similar purpose. Furthermore in the illustrations Figures and text specific names may be given to specific features elements circuits modules tables software modules systems etc. Such terminology used herein however is for the purpose of description and not limitation.

Although the invention has been described and pictured in a preferred form with a certain degree of particularity it is understood that the present disclosure of the preferred form has been made only by way of example and that numerous changes in the details of construction and combination and arrangement of parts may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

Having described and illustrated the principles of the technology with reference to specific implementations it will be recognized that the technology can be implemented in many other different forms and in many different environments. The technology disclosed herein can be used in combination with other technologies. Accordingly it is submitted that that the invention should not be limited to the described embodiments but rather should be limited only by the spirit and scope of the appended claims. In addition all publications and references cited herein are expressly incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

