---

title: Display devices
abstract: A display device includes a base structure, a plurality of modules coupled to the base structure, where each of the modules include a plurality of actuator assemblies. Each of the actuator assemblies is individually controllable to move the actuator assemblies between a retracted state and a plurality of extended states. A controller is coupled to each of the modules and is programmed to control the actuator assemblies to move the actuator assemblies between the retracted state and the plurality of extended states.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09640118&OS=09640118&RS=09640118
owner: The Coca-Cola Company
number: 09640118
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160114
---
This application claims the benefit of provisional application Ser. No. 61 800 611 filed on Mar. 15 2013 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Billboards and other large displays are an important component of most advertising portfolios. As with other real estate location is key. Most displays are configured to catch the eyes of viewers which can enhance the brands shown on the displays. In crowded display areas it is important to make a display distinctive to optimize the impact of the display.

In accordance with certain aspects of the present disclosure a display device includes a base structure a plurality of modules coupled to the base structure where each of the modules include a plurality of actuator assemblies. Each of the actuator assemblies is individually controllable to move the actuator assemblies between a retracted state and a plurality of extended states. A controller is coupled to each of the modules and is programmed to control the actuator assemblies to move the actuator assemblies between the retracted state and the plurality of extended states.

In accordance with further aspects a system for displaying content includes a display device that has a base structure a plurality of modules coupled to the base structure with each of the modules including a plurality of actuator assemblies. Each of the actuator assemblies are individually controllable to move the actuator assemblies between a retracted state and a plurality of extended states. At least one light module is coupled to each of the modules and a controller is coupled to each of the modules. The controller is programmed to control the actuator assemblies to move the actuator assemblies between the retracted state and the plurality of extended states. A computing device is configured to generate content for the display device and includes a memory and a processing unit encoding instructions that when executed by the processing unit cause the processing unit to control the actuator assemblies and the light modules.

In accordance with still further aspects of the disclosure a method for controlling a display includes sending a first signal for controlling a plurality of actuator assemblies with each of the actuator assemblies being individually controllable to move the actuator assemblies between a retracted state and a plurality of extended states. A second signal for controlling a plurality of light modules is also sent with at least one of the light modules being coupled to each of the actuator assemblies. The first and second signals are synchronized to generate a desired effect on the display device.

In some examples the display devices incorporate lighting and movement. The lighting and movement are configured to catch a viewer s attention. This can enhance the impact of the brand shown on the display device.

Referring now to an example display device is shown. Generally the display device is mounted on the side of a building. In other examples the display device can be mounted to other structures such as a billboard structure or can be configured to be freestanding.

The display device includes a main display and a side display . The main display includes a stationary top channel logo area e.g. the stylized Coca Cola and a dynamic area .

The main display and the side display can include lighting to enhance the impact of the display device . For example as described further below the main display and the side display can include a plurality of elements that are lit. In addition the dynamic area includes a plurality of actuator assemblies that move.

For example as shown in the display device includes a base structure upon which a plurality of modules are mounted. The base structure is mounted to the structure upon which the display device is mounted. The base structure provides structural integrity for each of the modules coupled thereto. The base structure also provides access to each of the modules for service and repair as described further below.

Each of the modules includes a plurality of actuator assemblies positioned therein. The use of individual modules allows the display device to be installed in an efficient manner since the modules can be moved and manipulated more easily than the entire display device . In this example the modules extend from the base structure a distance of approximately four feet although modules of different sizes can be used.

The example depicted shows that each of the modules includes a matrix of five rows of five actuator assemblies for a total of 25 actuator assemblies in each module . This configuration allows the actuator assemblies in each of the modules to function as a unit thereby addressing changes in the environment including stresses caused by the elements such as wind temperature etc. Because each of the modules functions as a unit such stresses are accommodated across the actuator assemblies .

In alternative designs the modules can include more or fewer actuator assemblies . In the depicted embodiment some of the actuator assemblies are nonmovable i.e. stationary in that the actuator assemblies remain in place and do not move like other actuator assemblies as described further below. For example in some embodiments the actuator assemblies that are nonmovable may be placed in the area surrounding the top channel logo area . In some embodiments the top two rows of the modules may be stationary or otherwise have actuator assemblies that are nonmovable.

Referring now to the main display is shown as made up of a plurality of the modules . In this embodiment a height of the main display is 19.6 meters and a width is 12.25 meters although displays of other dimensions can be used. In this example there are approximately 1 960 actuator assemblies of which 1 715 are movable and are nonmovable.

In this example the main display has a 12.5 millimeter LED pitch size see a pixel density of 6 400 pixels per square meter with a pixel configuration of 1R 1G and 1B per pixel. As described more below the display has a large viewing angle 16 bit color processing depth and is controlled synchronously. Louvers tailored to the specific environment e.g. based upon the sun density at a particular latitude can be included to enhance the LED display during sunny conditions. The side display can be similarly configured.

For example shows four LED modules positioned adjacent to one another. The pitch does not vary between LED modules even with a provided gap as described further herein.

Referring now to each of the actuator assemblies is configured to move. Specifically each of the actuator assemblies includes a moving cube movingly mounted to a core . The moving cube is made of a plurality of aluminum extruded panels see positioned about a holding tube . The moving cube is configured to slide along the holding tube in directions .

The moving cube is moved by a linear actuator assembly in the directions in a plurality of extended positions. As depicted the actuator assembly is fully extended in the direction the actuator assembly is partially extended in the direction and the actuator assembly is fully retracted. In this example the moving cube moves approximately 20 inches when in the fully extended position as depicted by the actuator assembly

For example in the fully retracted state shown in the actuator assembly has a length of approximately 1 000 millimeters. In the fully expanded state shown in the actuator assembly has a length of approximately 1 500 millimeters. However other lengths could be used depending on the amount of movement required. For example the actuator assembly could be configured such that it extends more than about 20 inches or less than about 20 inches.

In this example the linear actuator assembly includes a driver with a servo motor. The servo motor is electrically controlled and moves the moving cube in the directions to any of a plurality of extended positions. The movement can be precisely controlled so that the position of the moving cube is known. For example in one embodiment control is as precise as 0.0079 inches with a position range of 1 to 29 000.

In some examples the linear actuator assembly is a F12 BC made by W Robit of Taiwan. Such a linear actuator assembly can drive up to 44 pounds with a maximum drive speed of 40 inches per second. In another example a PAC UGT040D actuator made by PBC Linear of Roscoe Ill. is used. The motor of the linear actuator assembly is a BCH U04 Motor manufactured by Schneider Electric of Palatine Ill. The motor includes a LXM23A servo driver system and Modicon M258 logic controller both also manufactured by Schneider Electric. In still other examples the motor is a SM23165DT motor made by Moog Animatics of Santa Clara Calif.

A Light Emitting Diode LED module is mounted to each of the moving cubes . The LED module includes a plurality of LEDs such as an NSSM032T LED module made by Nichia Corporation of Japan. Such an LED module is a 3 in 1 SMD LED although other types can be used. In this example the LED module is 346 mm in height by 346 mm in width. The LED module is configured to provide a plurality of colors and each LED module on each of the actuator assemblies is individually controllable as described below.

In example embodiments the LED modules can be configured to display one or a plurality of colors. For example the LED modules can be configured to display text pictures or other effects. By grouping the LED module a larger effect such as a larger picture or text can be created on the main display .

In other embodiments LED modules could be placed on the sides e.g. mounted on panels and top and bottom of the moving cubes near the end of the moving cubes . In such an embodiment the light emitted from the LED modules placed on the side top and bottom of the moving cubes could be seen when looking at the display device from various angles. This embodiment for example would provide more continuous light when two adjacent moving cubes are positioned at different distances and the display is viewed from various angles.

In yet another alternative the brightness of the lights in the LED modules is configurable to create different appearances. For example the lights can be dimmed or otherwise dulled to form depth and other visual effects particularly around the edges of the display device .

A gap see is provided between adjacent LED modules . In one example this gap is four millimeters. This gap is small enough so that it is indiscernible from the viewing distance for the display device . Further the gap is an air gap so that any debris or other undesired materials does not get stuck between adjacent LED modules . Further the gap is configured to maintain the 12.5 millimeter pitch between adjacent LEDs .

In these examples the construction of the actuator assemblies allows for ease in access and maintenance. Specifically the way the actuator assemblies are coupled to the modules allows individual actuator assemblies to be removed individually from a rear of the display device . For example depicts a rear view of one of the modules from which the actuator assemblies are accessible.

Referring now to an alternative linear actuator assembly is shown. The actuator assembly is similar to the actuator assembly described above except that the linear actuator assembly is mounted to a side of the holding tube .

Referring again to some examples of the display device include a mechanical locking arrangement for securely locking the actuator assemblies in the retracted state. This could be desirable for instance during extremely severe weather. A rod latch is slidably mounted adjacent a rear portion of the actuator assemblies with a plurality of mounting brackets . One of the rod latches extends down each column of actuator assemblies . Thus the illustrated module includes five rod latches corresponding to the five columns of actuator assemblies . In some examples each of the rod latches extend down the entire column of the active portion of the display device . At the top of the module an actuator is rotatably supported by the base structure . Each of the rod latches is connected to a respective one of the actuators such that the rod latches move linearly up and down in response to movement of the actuators . The rod latches include a plurality of latch hooks attached thereto. Each of the rod latches has a number of latch hooks attached thereto corresponding to each row of the module . Thus in the illustrated example five latch hooks are shown connected to each rod latch . In embodiments where the rod latches extend down the entire columns of active portion there would be a latch hook for every row of actuator assemblies in each module .

The rod latches are movable via the actuators to move the rod latches to selectively engage the latch hooks into and out of engagement with the corresponding actuator assemblies . In the illustrated example the rod latches are threadably received by the base structure such that rotating the actuators in one direction moves the rod latches up and rotating them in the other direction moves the rod latches down. In the example shown in when one of the rod latches is moved upwards by the actuator the latch hooks engage the actuator assemblies to mechanically lock them in place.

The display device may include various other features to obtain and hold the attention of individuals capable of viewing the display device. These features could be facilitated by an interactive module located on the display device or be operably connected to it. For example the interactive module may include or be operably connected to sensors such as microphones cameras motion detectors moisture sensors light sensors etc. Additional features may include speakers lasers or other devices capable of producing light shows which could also be used to attract and hold the attention of individuals. Such features could be operated separately or may be integrated with other sensors such that the display device choreographs its display depending on input from the various sensors of the interactive module . For example the interactive module can include speakers and lasers controlled by a computing device that can choreograph the various sensors speakers or lasers to make the display device more attractive and entertaining.

In other examples sensors such as moisture wind temperature etc. sensors can be used to detect certain weather patterns. For example the sensors can be used to detect certain weather conditions in which operation of the actuator assemblies is not advisable icing conditions or extreme wind conditions specifically . In such scenarios the sensors detect the adverse weather condition and stop movement of the actuator assemblies until such time as the detected weather state passes. In some implementations a delay period is included such that movement of the actuator assemblies is not restarted until some predetermined time passes in which the adverse weather condition is not detected. This prevents the actuator assemblies from repeatedly starting and stopping for example during periods of variable wind gusts.

In other examples the interactive module is programmed to transmit sound e.g. music voice advertisements so that passers can tune to a particular radio frequency to listen on their radios. In yet other examples the interactive module can be programmed to communicate wirelessly e.g. through Bluetooth or via the Internet with viewers smartphones. In this example the viewer can access content such as a web site that allows the viewer to upload or otherwise stream content that can be displayed on the display device . Such content could be pictures etc.

In another example the interactive module could include microphones such that it could pay live sound. Such microphones could be directionally focused such that they could focus in on a particular sound source. In this regard the display device could include software such that the display device could be interactive with those viewing the display device s advertisement based on any number of factors such as movement sound recognizing elements in its surroundings etc.

Referring now to an example system for controlling the display device is shown. In this example a computing device communicates with each of the actuator assemblies through a network . Specifically the computing device communicates through a router to a plurality of Ethernet to DMX converters which in turn communicate with the display device through a plurality of DMX splitters . Other configurations are possible.

In this example the computing device is a local or remote computing device such as a desktop laptop or tablet computer. The computing device can use a standard communication protocol such as DMX CANOPEN Ethernet or RS485 interface to control the display device .

The control by the computing device can include programming the movement of each of the actuator assemblies . In one example an application programming interface API is provided that assists in the programming of the movement of the actuator assemblies .

In one example the linear actuator assembly is controlled by the computing device according to a percentage of extension for the moving cube . For example the computing device defines a percentage such as 0 percent 10 percent 25 percent 50 percent 75 percent and or 100 percent for the moving cube at a given point in time. The percentage is translated to instructions transmitted to the appropriate linear actuator to extend or retract the moving cube the desired amount. By defining a changing percentage over time the movement of the moving cube can be choreographed as desired.

In addition the computing device can define colors to be displayed by the LED module carried by the moving cube . The colors of the LEDs on the LED modules can be changed to create the desired effect.

Since each of the actuator assemblies can be individually controlled separately the movement and color of each of the actuator assemblies can be controlled to create patterns or other visual effects for the display device .

For example the actuator assemblies in a certain area of the display can be extended and retracted in coordination to give the appearance of movement of the display device . In one such example the actuator assemblies are controlled to provide a wave like effect across the display device . In another example the control is randomized so that the actuator assemblies move in random patterns. Other configurations and patterns are possible.

By controlling the display device in this manner the overall visual impact of the display device is increased. Specified patterns can be used to further enhance the visual effect of the display device thereby catching the eye of a viewer.

In some examples the patterns are configured to make certain shapes and depictions. For example as shown in the actuator assemblies in the dynamic area are patterned to represent the shape of a contoured bottle. To accomplish this each of the actuator assemblies is controlled to extend and or retract a certain distance to form the pattern of the bottle. An endless number of shapes and depictions can be created in this manner. In addition the shapes can be used to morph over time into a choreographed series of shapes.

For example the computing device can be programmed to create various shapes on the display device depending on the time of day as well as control the sequence of those shapes. The sequence can be choreographed or randomized as desired. For example in one embodiment the computing device can control the sign to depict fluid flowing out of a bottle. Many other examples are possible.

In addition the computing device may also control other aspects of the display device such as microphones speakers cameras or other sensors such as motion detectors light sensors and moisture sensors. For example the computing device could be configured such that it controls cameras located on or near the display device such that it could display images or video a camera captures. The computing device may also control speakers located on or near the sign such that it can play music or other desired sounds such as sounds obtained by a microphone. Thus the display device would be able to play stored sound stream sound from the internet or also play live sound detected by the microphone.

In addition the computing device may be equipped with video recognition software such that for example the camera could recognize a passerby and focus on and display that individual on the display . In addition the computing device may be configured or programmed to play stored sounds at relevant times to communicate with for example the individual being displayed on the display device by also controlling the speakers to project relevant sounds slogans or speech. In this aspect of one example embodiment the computing device allows the sign to be interactive with those in its surroundings and drawing more attention to the display device .

The computing device may also control other sensors placed on the display such as for example motion detectors light sensors and moisture sensors. The display device may also include lasers that can be controlled by the computing device such that the display device can produce a laser light show. The computing device may also integrate one or more of the sensors or the information obtained therefrom speakers lasers etc. to work in combination to enhance the display device . In yet another example embodiment of the display the computing device could be connected to the Internet and obtain a variety of information and display it on the display such as weather news etc. Such sensors such as a light sensor could be used to adjust the brightness of the display device for example to adjust the brightness of the LEDs depending on the weather or time of day or night. Likewise the microphones could also be used to adjust the volume of the speakers to the appropriate level given the particular surroundings.

Referring now to an example process for controlling the display device is shown. Some of the operations in this process can be implemented for example by the computing device .

At operation a video creation software application such as a three dimensional visualization software is used to author content for the display device . The software which is executed by the computing device or any other computing device not necessarily connected to the display device allows for the creation and or manipulation of video content that will be used to control the display device . The software optionally includes an emulator that depicts the display device to allow a user to author different content for the display device. One example of such content is an advertisement featuring a bottle. The advertisement can define the shape motion and color of the bottle to be depicted on the display device .

Next at operation the content is edited into video i.e. color and motion components. This is accomplished by extracting the video and motion components so that dual synchronized video files are formed. The first video file is for controlling the light display the LED modules and the second video file is for controlling the motion i.e. the moving cubes .

The first video file is transferred to operations whereat the LED modules of the display device are controlled. This includes controlling which of the LED modules are active and any content displayed on the LED modules. In this example the LED modules are controlled using the GigE protocol.

The second video file is transferred to operation whereat the motion file is interpreted and translated into the DMX protocol. This protocol is in turn used at operation to control movement of the moving cubes of the actuator assemblies by the servo motor.

By synchronizing the first and second video files the visual and motion components of the display device are synchronized to create the desired effects as defined by the author.

In these examples the computing device includes one or more processing units and computer readable media. Computer readable media includes physical memory such as volatile memory such as RAM non volatile memory such as ROM flash memory etc. or some combination thereof. Additionally the computing device can include mass storage removable and or non removable such as a magnetic or optical disks or tape. An operating system such as Linux or Windows and one or more application programs can be stored on the mass storage device. The computing device can include input devices such as a keyboard and mouse and output devices such as a monitor and printer .

The computing device also includes network connections to other devices computers networks servers etc. such as through the network . In example embodiments the computing device communicates with other components through one or more networks such as a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet or a combination thereof. Communications can be implemented using wired and or wireless technologies.

The display device is configured to be resistant to the forces of nature. For example the display device including the base structure and the modules is configured to withstand rain and wind as the display device is used outside during the different seasons. As noted herein in certain weather conditions certain functions of the display device can be suspended temporarily.

Embodiments of the APT receive as inputs a display video intended to be shown on the LED modules and a movement video which is an encoded representation of the LED module movement. As shown in the APT receives the display and movement videos from a video editing application . In certain implementations the movement video is a movie that matches the display video s dimensions but is a black and white or greyscale video. Black represents an actuator assembly that is fully retracted and white represents an actuator assembly module that is fully extended. The motion control video is discussed further below.

Examples of the APT further provide the ability to export the content once the user has completed creating and previewing it. With the system illustrated in the APT outputs content over a network such as the internet to a device controlling the display such as the computing device . Upon selection by the user in process content to be exported is validated in a validation process prior to export. If content to be exported is found invalid power consumption or actuator movement is outside predetermined thresholds for example the user is notified via the preview process .

Valid export data include for example a file with video correctly formatted for display by the LED controllers and a file with video correctly formatted for interpretation for movement by the actuator assemblies .

As noted above some embodiments of the APT provide the interface for including actuator assembly movement along with the displayed video content. End users may either create movement to go along with their display videos using a video editing application of choice or they may select default movement files provided within the APT. For example the APT may include a library of pre generated movement videos that define predetermined movement patterns available for users of the APT .

Embodiments of the APT are configured to verify that the video and motion files are the same length. If the files are not the same length various solutions may be employed. For example if the content video is longer than motion video an error message is presented to the user informing them if they continue the motion content will be looped. If the motion video is longer than the content video an error message is presented to the user informing them if they continue the motion content will be truncated.

To combine the content and movement video files to simulate the video and motion together both a content video file and corresponding movement file are loaded to the APT from the editing application . For the content video file the APT checks for the appropriate file type length etc. in the validation process . Each video frame is read in sequence and converted to an image for manipulation by a three dimensional simulator. As noted above the disclosed example display device includes a grid having movable LED modules . The content video file is thus split into a corresponding grid for display on the individual LED modules of each module . The movement file is the same size as the content video file and is also split into a corresponding grid.

As noted above in conjunction with motion content is sent to the display device via DMX splitters . In some example implementations the movement software controller MSC provides the movement information that is sent to the actuator assemblies via the DMX splitters . illustrates aspects of an example MSC which includes components that manage and communicate with the actuator assemblies . As shown in the MSC receives the exported data motion video as verified by the APT and converts the motion video data to a format suitable for controlling the actuator assemblies . The movement control data are then sent to the display device via the DMX splitters .

In certain implementations the MSC is installed at the location of the display device and provides operational functionality for the movement of the actuator assemblies . In some embodiments the DMX protocol DM512 is used for communicating to the actuator assemblies . The signals output by the MSC are thus converted to DMX instructions suitable for controlling the actuator assemblies . In some embodiments the LightFactory control system from dreamsolutions of Auckland New Zealand is used to convert the greyscale video signal data into DMX512 instructions.

A conversion process converts the motion data to visual data and the MSC displays the motion data as a visual output the greyscale data is displayed to the MSC monitor . Each frame of movement data is converted to a greyscale red green and blue value. This greyscale value is drawn to the screen as 28 pixel wide by 28 pixel high squares arranged in a grid exactly like the movement video file exported from the APT . The visual motion data is converted to an internal representation of motion. The greyscale value for video for each module is converted into a numeric value between 0 and 255 0 being completely black and 255 being fully white . The greyscale numeric value is then converted to DMX512 instructions such that the numeric values correspond to the extension of the actuator assemblies as described above.

As illustrated in the example of the MSC includes a motion panel process that communicates with a motion panel and an environmental process that communicates with additional sensors such as one or more environmental sensors. The motion panel for example provides a physical panel for overriding the actuator assembly movement. It includes physical switches that are mapped to the MSC to override the control of the actuator assemblies for maintenance etc. Some embodiments include a master on off switch that controls all of the actuator assemblies a series of grid control switches that controls individual modules for actuator assembly replacement or cleaning. The MSC receives instructions from the panel and modifies the incoming movement video signal to disable or enable the desired actuator assemblies . Various mechanical test modes are included to ensure the mechanical functionality of all modules including for example testing movement speed distance etc. of the actuator assemblies.

In the some examples the environmental sensors include a weather server that provides data regarding weather conditions such as wind speed temperature humidity etc. During normal operation the MSC regularly requests updates for example each second from the motion panel and environmental servers . In some implementations each of these services has a separate timeout period e.g. 60 seconds for the maintenance panel 30 seconds for the weather sensors . If the service returns a negative status response during the entire timeout period the MSC will disable movement of the actuator assemblies . The MSC will enable movement once the web service has again returned a positive status response for the entire timeout period. Additionally if the web service is completely unresponsive during this timeout period the MSC will disable movement. The MSC will enable movement once the web service has again been responsive for the entire timeout period.

In some implementations the MCS further includes a power usage detection process that monitors power consumption of the display device . For example a power consumption threshold parameter may be determined and used as an input to the MSC . Power usage is monitored for module movement LEDs and other ancillary components. If power usage exceeds the threshold parameter a warning or message is sent to an event log .

The various embodiments described above are provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed to limiting. Those skilled in the art will readily recognize various modifications and changes that may be made to the embodiments described above without departing from the true spirit and scope of the disclosure or the following claims.

