---

title: System and method for measuring biological fluid biomarkers
abstract: Systems and methods of analyzing biological fluid biomarkers, calculating biomarker data, transmitting data to a transceiver device, and storing the data and/or analytics in a database and/or on at least one remote computer server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09636061&OS=09636061&RS=09636061
owner: CoreSyte, Inc.
number: 09636061
owner_city: Great Falls
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160203
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 130 047 filed Mar. 9 2015 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention is generally directed to a system and method including a device for sensing and collecting biological fluid inputs and transmitting inputs to a remote computing device for analyzing the biological fluid inputs.

Generally biomarkers from biological fluid have significant prognostic and or diagnostic utility such as predicting disease nutritional imbalance or psychological or physical stress however many of the most utilized biomarkers are collected from blood. The ability to predict events through non invasive means such as sweat detection provides great utility to persons under physical stress particularly individuals in the process of physical activity or exercise. The ability to monitor sweat biomarkers real time and continuously during activity allows an individual to make informed decisions regarding hydration nutrition and exertional status and recovery all variables that moderate physical performance.

For example hydration status is a predictor of physical performance dehydration as low as 1 of body mass can impair performance. Prior art detection and treatment as shown in is currently at the stages of when symptoms present performance degrades and or injury presents. Determining hydration through sweat biomarkers before dehydration symptoms present has many benefits such as reducing fatigue cramps and headaches. Therefore developing a device and system for non invasively obtaining biomarkers such as through sweat is needed.

Sweat contains a multitude of biomarkers any substance aqueously dissolvable in the blood can present in the sweat by way of eccrine glands. The sweat biomarkers can be small molecules proteins metabolites and or electrolytes. Well known electrolytes in sweat are sodium and potassium. As shown in potassium concentration is not dependent upon sweat rate due to the passive diffusive transport of potassium while sodium and chloride concentrations in sweat are dependent upon sweat rate due to the active transport of sodium. Thus monitoring sodium or chloride concentrations is an accurate indirect means of indicating hydration status of an individual. Therefore developing a sweat biomarker monitoring device that can communicate to an individual real time biomarker data is needed.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 198 953 for method and system for continuous sweat collection and analysis by Webster et al. filed Mar. 11 1999 and issued Mar. 6 2001 is directed to a method and system of the invention provide especially for continuously obtaining and analyzing on a real time basis sweat from a selected area of skin on the body of a person especially a neonate being diagnosed for cystic fibrosis by causing sweating of the selected area of skin by placing an electrically positive iontophoretic electrode device of a set of said devices over the selected area of skin preferably within a previously placed receiving and holding device which following the induction of sweat and removal of the electrically positive iontophoretic electrode device receives a sweat sensing electrode device that continuously sends electrical signals to sweat analysis circuitry for providing a digital readout of the ionic composition of the sweat.

U.S. Pat. No. 8 388 534 for an apparatus providing skin care information by measuring skin moisture content by Jang et al. filed Sep. 24 2007 and issued Mar. 5 2013 is directed to an apparatus for providing skin care information the apparatus including an electrode unit supplying a voltage to a user s skin and detecting a current signal in the user s skin a measurement control unit measuring the user s skin moisture content and sweat gland activity by using the detected current signal a data calculation unit deriving skin moisture content information by using the skin moisture content and the sweat gland activity and generating skin care information corresponding to the skin moisture content information and an information provider providing the user with the generated skin care information is provided.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 575 549 for an apparatus and method for increasing monitoring measuring and controlling perspiratory water and solid loss at reduced ambient pressure by Miller filed Jul. 30 2004 and issued Aug. 18 2009 is directed to a device for increasing monitoring and measuring perspiration water and solid loss at reduced ambient pressure comprising a sealed chamber capable of maintaining less than atmospheric pressure for an extended period of time and a gasket sealed door accessing the chamber. An algorithm allowing for continuous calculations of sweat loss and fluid replacement requirements of the occupant of the chamber is disclosed.

US patent application 2014 330 096 for performing a physiological analysis with increased reliability by Brunswick filed Nov. 12 2012 and issued Nov. 6 2014 is directed to a method for performing an electrophysiological analysis implemented in a system includes a series of electrodes to be placed on different regions of the human body a DC voltage source controlled so as to produce DC voltage pulses a switching circuit for selectively connecting the active electrodes to the voltage source the active electrodes forming an anode and a cathode and for connecting at least one other high impedance passive electrode used to measure the potential reached by the body and a measuring circuit for reading data representative of the current in the active electrodes and data representative of the potentials generated on at least certain high impedance electrodes in response to the application of the pulses the data allowing a value to be determined for the electrochemical conductance of the skin.

US patent application 2014 350 432 for assessment of relative proportions of adrenergic and cholinergic nervous receptors with non invasive tests by Khalfallah and Brunswick filed Aug. 8 2014 and issued Nov. 27 2014 is directed to a system and method for assessing relative proportions of cholinergic and adrenergic nervous receptors in a patient is disclosed. The system includes an anode a cathode and passive electrode for placement on different regions of the patient body. The method generally includes applying DC voltage pulses of varying voltage values to stress sweat glands of the patient collecting data representing the current between the anode and the cathode and the potential of the anode the cathode and the passive electrode for each of the different DC voltage and computing data representing the electrochemical skin conductance of the patient. The computed data representing the electromechanical skin conductance of the patient is reconciled with reference data from control patients having known relative proportions of cholinergic and adrenergic nervous receptors. Thus the relative proportions of cholinergic and adrenergic nervous receptors in the patient can be determined.

US patent application 2015 019 135 for motion sensor and analysis by Kacyvensky et al. filed Jun. 3 2014 and issued Jan. 15 2015 is directed to the performance of an individual being monitored based on measurements of a conformal sensor device. An example system includes a communication module to receive data indicative of a measurement of at least one sensor component of the conformal sensor device. The sensor component obtains measurement of acceleration data representative of an acceleration proximate to the portion of the individual. A comparison of a parameter computed based on the sensor component measurement to a preset performance threshold value provides an indication of the performance of the individual.

Published article by Liu et al. in Conf Proc IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc 2014 1678 81 discusses the implementation of a microfluidic conductivity sensor a potential sweat electrolyte sensing system for dehydration detection.

Although biomarkers in sweat are appreciated specifically electrolytes and glucose a system and method is still lacking that continuously analyzes sweat biomarkers in real time and transmits data to a user which informs the user of his or her health status.

The present invention presents a system and method including a device for sensing and collecting biological fluid inputs and transmitting inputs via a wireless network to a remote computing device for analyzing the biological fluid inputs and fluid biomarkers calculating biomarker data and storing the data in a database and or on the computing device and or on a remote computer server.

The system includes an apparatus or device including at least one electrochemical sensor a microcontroller and a transceiver antenna coil at least one remote transceiver device and at least one remote computer server. The apparatus analyzes at least one biological fluid biomarker calculates at least one output datum of the at least one biological fluid biomarker and transmits the at least one output datum to the at least one remote transceiver device. The at least one remote transceiver device transmits the at least one datum with the at least one remote computer server or at least one remote computing device or database for storage. The apparatus and the at least one remote transceiver device have real time or near real time two way communication.

The method includes the steps of providing an apparatus including at least one electrochemical sensor a microcontroller and a transceiver antenna coil at least one remote transceiver device and at least one remote computer server. The at least one remote transceiver device and the apparatus being operable for two way cross communication in real time or near real time. The electrochemical sensor sensing at least one biomarker which creates a voltage. The microcontroller converting the at least one biomarker into at least one output datum using at least one algorithm. The at least one remote transceiver device inputting modifying variables into the at least one algorithm via the two way communication with the apparatus. The transceiver antenna coil transmitting the at least one output datum to the at least one remote transceiver device via the two way communication with the apparatus. The at least one remote transceiver device sharing or transmitting the at least one datum with the at least one remote computer server or device or database for storage.

These and other aspects of the present invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art after a reading of the following description of the preferred embodiment when considered with the drawings as they support the claimed invention.

The present invention provides systems and methods including a device for sensing and collecting biological fluid inputs and transmitting inputs to a remote computing device for analyzing the biological fluid inputs or analyzing biological fluid biomarkers calculating biomarker data and storing the data in a database and or on the computing device and or on a remote computer server.

One component of the system is a sensor apparatus or device for sensing sweat biomarkers. illustrates a multi layered apparatus or device that includes a double sided adhesive layer a filter paper an electronic layer and a woven top adhesive. More specifically the device is flexible and multi layered wherein the layers comprise the following a macrofluidic double sided adhesive layer an electronic layer comprising at least one electrochemical sensor a microcontroller and a transceiver antenna coil a microfluidic management layer and a vapor porous top protective layer. The macrofluidic double sided adhesive layer is intimately adhered to the skin. The electronic layer is intimately adhered to the macrofluidic double sided adhesive layer as shown in . The microfluidic management layer circumferentially surrounds the at least one electrochemical sensor of the electronic layer. The vapor porous top protective layer is placed on and completely covers the microfluidic management layer and electronic layer. The vapor porous top protective layer is intimately adhered to the macrofluidic double sided adhesive layer. The fully fabricated sensor apparatus is shown in . Preferably the length of the apparatus is approximately 76.1 mm. In one embodiment the adhesive of the apparatus is Double Coated Polyester Nonwoven Tape commercially available as 3M 9917 as of this writing . In another embodiment the adhesive of the apparatus is Tan Tricot Knit Tape commercially available as 3M 9926T as of this writing . The design of the microfluidic layer improves flow control and decreases patch layer delamination during high sweat volume use cases.

The sensor apparatus is designed to allow sweat to flow through laser cut macrofluidic pores in the skin adhesive layer as shown in . Sweat then flows through a filter to the electronics layer specifically the electrochemical sensor unit where biomarkers may contact the electrodes of the electrochemical sensor unit. The sweat evaporates through the woven textile protective top layer. The evaporation affords improved and continuous sweat flow into the sensor apparatus. This wicking ensures sweat sensing measures are consistently using new sweat samples rather than static or diluted samples. In one embodiment the wicking and sweat flow rates range from 0 to 5 Total Body Loss hr instant equivalent sweat loss rate or equivalent to 11.5 L hr total loss.

The present invention further includes a device with a small amount of ionophore polymer on the active electrodes to filter prevent untargeted ions to reach the electrode. Sensor functionality and accuracy require precision placement with proper thickness of a small amount of ionophore polymer in one embodiment. The amount is approximately 2 microliters with a designated viscosity placed in a clean assembly environment to completely cover the exposed active electrode on the skin facing side of the flexcircuit. The coating shall preferably not exceed more than 0.5 mm from the edge of the electrode. In one embodiment the ionophore polymer is cured. In another embodiment the curing takes place using heat and or light to accelerate drying without changing the ionophore selectivity characteristics.

In one embodiment the sensor is calibrated. Preferably a user calibrates the sensor using actual test results and feedback from the sensor.

The sensor apparatus includes sweat sensor subsystem as shown in which includes a microcontroller that receives multiple input data which are input from multiple sources. A first source is biological fluid preferably sweat although alternative fluids may be used. The sweat contains a variety of analytes such as by way of example and not limitation electrolytes small molecules proteins and metabolites. Exemplary analytes include substances including sodium or potassium. In one embodiment the sensor apparatus is operable to sense sodium in a dynamic range from about 0 mM to about 120 mM with normal ranges in humans being about 20 mM to about 100 mM. In another embodiment the sensor apparatus is operable to sense potassium in a dynamic range from about 0 mM to about 40 mM with normal ranges in humans being about 5 mM to about 20 mM. In one embodiment the sensor has a response time of about 60 seconds with about a 90 response. Other analytes include oxygen glucose ammonium and interleukins. In one embodiment the sensor is operable to analyze the analytes at a pM level preferably in the 1 10 pM range or even below 1 pM the sub pM level . These analytes are collected at the electrochemical sensor as shown in which houses reference preferably standard and active electrodes wherein by example and not limitation the electrodes are silver zinc copper gold platinum rhodium carbon or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the apparatus has an embedded dot circle configuration for a reference electrode to improve stability through less interference. Additionally gold probes or electrodes are used in one embodiment to improve stability and reduce production costs. The apparatus also includes a microprocessor multiplexer mux ADC and optimized on board processing for real time pre transmission sensor signal conditioning in another embodiment. The apparatus is also optimized for efficient and successful transmission during athletic usage. When the electrodes contact the sweat biomarkers a voltage is produced. Three electrodes per analyte are used to create an average voltage value which is transmitted to the microcontroller wherein the microcontroller pre processes and prepares the sensor data to be communicated to the transceiver device via Bluetooth communication in preferred embodiments. Alternatively an RFID NFC or other proprietary communications chip may be provided. The NFC chip preferably has an increased base signal amplitude for better processing and lower resolution as well as better concentration confidence and resolution. Bluetooth is preferred due to its low energy ubiquitousness and low cost. Most any Bluetooth enabled device can pair with another Bluetooth device within a given proximity which affords more ubiquitous communication between the microcontroller and a transceiver device. The dynamic and automatic connections of Bluetooth allow for multiple microcontrollers to communicate with a single transceiver device which by way of example and not limitation would provide for a team based situation wherein the sweat data of multiple athletes is communicated to a single coach or team database. A second source of input data is the remote transceiver device. By two way communication the transceiver device may transmit data to the microcontroller of the apparatus which is part of an inter integrated circuit as shown in . The data to be transmitted will have been manually or automatically input in the transceiver device. For example and not limitation as shown in types of manually input data of the one or multiple users may include gender or gender factors fitness or conditioning level age and anthropomorphic data such as height and weight. The anthropomorphic data is preferably used to estimate user body surface area which is a critical variable for accurately determining sweat loss and electrolyte loss. More preferably estimates are a product of anthropomorphic data gender and age. Prior art assumes a body surface area of about 2 mto calculate sweat loss and electrolyte loss. Using anthropomorphic variables as in the present invention consistently decreases calculated error rate from between about 50 and about 70 percent to less than about 10 percent preferably. The accuracy resulting from body mass estimation revealed that persons with larger body mass such as males more readily adapt to physical exertion by sweating more quickly a larger volume and lower electrolyte concentration. Similarly a physically fit person with a small body mass such as a female adapts to physical exertion by adjusting sweat flow rates and electrolyte levels. Although prior art has validly analyzed sodium potassium sweat rates etc. it has failed to account for body surface area mass and VO2 max thus inflating calculated error rate. These data support that sweat flow rates and electrolyte loss is strongly correlated with body size and surface area and conditioning level which further supports the need for proper estimation of body size such as through anthropomorphic variables.

Other types of manually input data include metabolic disorder such as diabetes. Since Type 1 diabetes is associated with reduced eccrine gland activation and thus lower sweat rates the present invention may reveal user metabolic disorder. Further automatically input data may include user skin temperature outdoor or indoor temperature and or humidity and altitude. The automatically input data may be generated in the remote transceiver device by integrated applications such as GPS or weather. Together the data transmitted to the microcontroller from the remote transceiver device represent modifying variables.

The microcontroller converts the voltage data from the biological fluid into a concentration or ratio value of the biomarker using at least one programmed algorithm. For example as shown in if the algorithm was converting the amount of sodium ions detected at the sensor into a sodium concentration the algorithm would apply around 0.242 mM per mV of sodium. For potassium conversion the ratio would be around 0.195 mM per mV of potassium. Embodiments for sensing sodium and potassium concentration in a liquid including sweat are disclosed in U.S. Pub. No. 20150057515 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In one embodiment the sweat rate based sodium and potassium ratios of U.S. Pub. No. 20150057515 are included in algorithms of the present invention. In one embodiment sensor data are inputs into real time blood serum hydration sodium concentration and potassium concentration using absorption and extraction models that use sensor data as starting points. These calculated values are the apparatus output data. Types of output data include but are not limited to concentrations such as molarity osmolarity and osmolality and descriptive statistics such as averages ratios and trends all of which may be categorized based on a sub range within a larger physiological range of the biomarker as shown in . The modifying variables transmitted from the remote transceiver device may modify the algorithm which may adjust the output data.

The output data is then transmitted from the apparatus to a remote computer device such as by way of example and not limitation a smartphone a tablet computer or wearable computer preferably through wireless network communication by the transceiver antenna which may include a coil of the apparatus. Using a larger antenna in the present invention provided for lower data loss and easier reads associated with a broad x y placement tolerance. The wireless transmission is provided by any suitable wireless communication wireless network communication standards based or non standards based by way of example and not limitation Bluetooth radiofrequency zigbee near field communication or other similar commercially utilized standards. At the remote transceiver device the output data can be viewed and assessed by the one or multiple users. The one or more users also may manipulate or further analyze the output data such as by creating user defined graphs and tables. Preferably the remote transceiver device is portable. More preferably the device is a smartphone. Alternative devices include bulk readers such as food and or beverage dispensers with sensor and or mobile app communication capabilities or athletic training gear including treadmills spin bikes ellipticals stair climbers and weight machines with integrated mobile communication capabilities. More alternative devices include desktop or laptop computers and tablets. diagrams the communication between the sensor apparatus and the smartphone or reader wherein power commands and or data may be communicated.

From the remote transceiver device the user may transmit processed or unprocessed data to at least one remote computer server preferably by wireless communication such as through a user web service. The remote computer server which may be a network or cloud may store the transmitted data in a library. The cloud preferably serves as a software development kit SDK for potential solution partners a cloud based user app with real time ingestion calculation and display and a cloud based user store with ubiquitous access.

The library will include functions such as file storage security extensions utilities scheduling messaging persistence cache and logging. shows a cloud enterprise wherein a cloud computing platform receives data from application users and processes it for internal and partner use. The software code that resides in a cloud based computer system of the present invention is designed constructed and configured to handle the unique data in unique ways. It automatically validates data to determine if it is reasonable useable data and triggers a series of workflows based on the type date time stamps and scope of data to correlate and identify trends. It further includes correlation and trending tags for subsequent user alerts analysis. The code has an open framework built on web service concepts to interact and integrate with other 3party analytics. These web service calls are a series of open Application Programming Interfaces APIs aggregated into a Software Development Kit SDK which enables authorized 3party developers to create and maintain 3party user apps that leverage the cloud infrastructure to access share data correlations trends and other analytic results.

The two way communication between the apparatus and the remote transceiver device is significant for the fullness of system functionality. As shown in the remote transceiver device may communicate with the apparatus to provide by way of example and not limitation commands electrode calibration microcontroller software updates new or updated algorithms and or new or updated modifying variables for algorithms. Communication may be manually or audibly activated. The apparatus may communicate with the remote transceiver device to provide by way of example and not limitation output data microcontroller health properties error codes electrode maintenance or malfunction. At the transceiver device the one or more users may separately or simultaneously view selected session tables full history session tables sensor or multi sensor chronology and external sensor correlation. Further selected biomarker or multi biomarker histories may be viewed.

The system architecture is diagrammed in . Here the remote transceiver device is characterized as a Mobile App preferably on a smartphone which is in communication with the sensor apparatus via wireless communication. Mobile App controls and commands are diagrammed in . The Mobile App may network with the user web service as shown in to access the cloud database and library as shown in . An example cloud platform operable with the present invention is the EMITTI platform ex Amazon Web Services Microsoft Azure or any other similar commercial or private cloud platform cloud architecture is more specifically detailed in . The web service allows the user to access analyze and manipulate user output data that was transmitted from the sensor apparatus. shows an individual user web front including features such as external sensor correlation selected session summary and session tables. shows the user web front for multiple users. The complete website builder platform is shown in . The website may connect to the cloud computing enterprise which is diagrammed in or link to social media sites.

From the cloud computing system data from multiple users may be stored as diagrammed in . Access to these data may be acquired by researchers and epidemiologists to perform a variety of research analytics. The captured data will preferably be from the same sweat detection model providing greater reliability to the pool of data. The ability to collect these specific biomarker data from such a large population of subjects creates an invaluable real time continuous epidemiological research system and method.

The preferred embodiment of the system includes an apparatus that intimately adheres to mammalian skin. The sweat from the skin is moved into the apparatus for detection of sweat biomarkers and analytes. Where on the mammal the apparatus is positioned is dependent upon by way of example and not limitation user preference sweat collection patterns or sweat production amounts at a given location.

The apparatus is operable to determine a measured amount of transepidermal sweat and or a measured amount of evaporative sweat and an estimated amount of transepidermal sweat and or an estimated amount of evaporative sweat. In one embodiment estimated amounts are determined based on body surface area mass gender fitness level weight and or age. In another embodiment the apparatus is operable to compare the estimated amount of transepidermal sweat and or the estimated amount of evaporative sweat to the measured amount of transepidermal sweat and or the measured amount of evaporative sweat and provide a status based on the comparison of the estimated amount of transepidermal sweat and or the estimate amount of evaporative sweat to the measured amount of transepidermal sweat and or the measured amount of evaporative sweat. In another embodiment the apparatus uses a tangible quantifiable fitness level in combination with sweat biomarker ratios in order to calculate real time sweat rates. In another embodiment the apparatus uses gender factors in order to improve sweat flow rate accuracy. In another embodiment the apparatus uses consumption refresh models exact custom formula to return to start condition.

The apparatus is also operable to model losses and consumption of sweat in order to estimate blood serum characteristics at a time before use at the start of use in real time or at a time after use. In one embodiment the apparatus is operable to predict performance erosion and injury probability based on the analysis of at least one biological fluid biomarker. In another embodiment the apparatus is operable to use the analysis of sweat to provide corrective action recommendations.

Exemplary technologies regarding sensor technology analysis communication and manufacture are illustrated by the following PCT patent application publication no. PCT US2013 035092 for sweat stimulation collection and sensing systems by Heikenfeld et al. filed Apr. 3 2013 PCT patent application publication no. PCT US2014 061083 for devices for integrated repeated prolonged and or reliable sweat stimulation and biosensing by Heikenfeld and Sonner filed Oct. 17 2014 PCT patent application publication no. PCT US2014 061098 for sweat sensing with chronological assurance by Heikenfeld filed Oct. 17 2014 U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 62 003 675 for advanced sweat sensor adhesion hermetic and fluidic strategies by Heikenfeld filed May 28 2014 U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 62 003 692 for dermal transport and biomarker sensing devices with preferential targeting of sweat ducts by Heikenfeld filed May 28 2014 U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 62 003 707 for device construction and methods for prolonged and reliable stimulation and sensing by Heikenfeld filed May 28 2014 U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 62 003 715 for vertical flow porous electrode membrane devices for sensing by Heikenfeld and Sonner filed May 28 2014 U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 62 003 233 for combinatorial sensing of sweat biomarkers using simple potentiometry and impedance measurements by Heikenfeld et al. filed Jul. 11 2014 U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 62 053 388 for sweat sensing with analytical assurance by Heikenfeld filed Sep. 22 2014 U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 62 064 009 for patch communication security and compliance by Heikenfeld et al. filed Oct. 15 2014 U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 62 074 295 for advanced adhesives for chronological sweat sensors by Heikenfeld filed Nov. 3 2014 and U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 62 114 835 for devices with reduced sweat volumes between sensors and sweat glands by Heikenfeld filed Feb. 11 2015 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The server is constructed configured and coupled to enable communication over a network with a computing devices . The server includes a processing unit with an operating system . The operating system enables the server to communicate through network with the remote distributed user devices. Database may house an operating system memory and programs .

In one embodiment of the invention the system includes a cloud based network for distributed communication via a wireless communication antenna and processing by a plurality of mobile communication computing devices . In another embodiment of the invention the system is a virtualized computing system capable of executing any or all aspects of software and or application components presented herein on the computing devices . In certain aspects the computer system may be implemented using hardware or a combination of software and hardware either in a dedicated computing device or integrated into another entity or distributed across multiple entities or computing devices.

By way of example and not limitation the computing devices are intended to represent various forms of digital computers and mobile devices such as a server blade server mainframe mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a smart phone a desktop computer a netbook computer a tablet computer a workstation a laptop and other similar computing devices. The components shown here their connections and relationships and their functions are meant to be exemplary only and are not meant to limit implementations of the invention described and or claimed in this document

In one embodiment the computing device includes components such as a processor a system memory having a random access memory RAM and a read only memory ROM and a system bus that couples the memory to the processor . In another embodiment the computing device may additionally include components such as a storage device for storing the operating system and one or more application programs a network interface unit and or an input output controller . Each of the components may be coupled to each other through at least one bus . The input output controller may receive and process input from or provide output to a number of other devices including but not limited to alphanumeric input devices mice electronic styluses display units touch screens signal generation devices e.g. speakers or printers.

By way of example and not limitation the processor may be a general purpose microprocessor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU a microcontroller a Digital Signal Processor DSP an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA a Programmable Logic Device PLD a controller a state machine gated or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any other suitable entity or combinations thereof that can perform calculations process instructions for execution and or other manipulations of information.

In another implementation shown as in multiple processors and or multiple buses may be used as appropriate along with multiple memories of multiple types e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core .

Also multiple computing devices may be connected with each device providing portions of the necessary operations e.g. a server bank a group of blade servers or a multi processor system . Alternatively some steps or methods may be performed by circuitry that is specific to a given function.

According to various embodiments the computer system may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to local and or remote computing devices through a network . A computing device may connect to a network through a network interface unit connected to the bus . Computing devices may communicate communication media through wired networks direct wired connections or wirelessly such as acoustic RF or infrared through an antenna in communication with the network antenna and the network interface unit which may include digital signal processing circuitry when necessary. The network interface unit may provide for communications under various modes or protocols.

In one or more exemplary aspects the instructions may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combinations thereof. A computer readable medium may provide volatile or non volatile storage for one or more sets of instructions such as operating systems data structures program modules applications or other data embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The computer readable medium may include the memory the processor and or the storage media and may be a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed computer system that store the one or more sets of instructions . Non transitory computer readable media includes all computer readable media with the sole exception being a transitory propagating signal per se. The instructions may further be transmitted or received over the network via the network interface unit as communication media which may include a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics changed or set in a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Storage devices and memory include but are not limited to volatile and nonvolatile media such as cache RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM FLASH memory or other solid state memory technology disks or discs e.g. digital versatile discs DVD HD DVD BLURAY compact disc CD CD ROM floppy disk or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to store the computer readable instructions and which can be accessed by the computer system .

It is also contemplated that the computer system may not include all of the components shown in may include other components that are not explicitly shown in or may utilize an architecture completely different than that shown in . The various illustrative logical blocks modules elements circuits and algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application e.g. arranged in a different order or partitioned in a different way but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

By way of definition and description supporting the claimed subject matter preferably the present invention includes communication methodologies for transmitting data data packets messages or messaging via a communication layer. Wireless communications over a network are preferred. Correspondingly and consistent with the communication methodologies for transmitting data or messaging according to the present invention as used throughout this specification figures and claims wireless communication is provided by any reasonable protocol or approach by way of example and not limitation Bluetooth Wi Fi cellular zigbee near field communication or other similar commercially utilized standards the term ZigBee refers to any wireless communication protocol adopted by the Institute of Electronics Electrical Engineers IEEE according to standard 802.15.4 or any successor standard s the term Wi Fi refers to any communication protocol adopted by the IEEE under standard 802.11 or any successor standard s the term WiMax refers to any communication protocol adopted by the IEEE under standard 802.16 or any successor standard s and the term Bluetooth refers to any short range communication protocol implementing IEEE standard 802.15.1 or any successor standard s . Additionally or alternatively to WiMax other communications protocols may be used including but not limited to a 1G wireless protocol such as analog wireless transmission first generation standards based IEEE ITU or other recognized world communications standard a 2G standards based protocol such as EDGE or CDMA 2000 also known as 1 RTT a 3G based standard such as High Speed Packet Access HSPA or Evolution for Data Only EVDO any accepted 4G standard such as IEEE ITU standards that include WiMax Long Term Evolution LTE and its derivative standards any Ethernet solution wireless or wired or any proprietary wireless or power line carrier standards that communicate to a client device or any controllable device that sends and receives an IP based message. The term High Speed Packet Data Access HSPA refers to any communication protocol adopted by the International Telecommunication Union ITU or another mobile telecommunications standards body referring to the evolution of the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM standard beyond its third generation Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS protocols. The term Long Term Evolution LTE refers to any communication protocol adopted by the ITU or another mobile telecommunications standards body referring to the evolution of GSM based networks to voice video and data standards anticipated to be replacement protocols for HSPA. The term Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Evolution Date Optimized EVDO Revision A CDMA EVDO Rev. A refers to the communication protocol adopted by the ITU under standard number TIA 856 Rev. A.

It will be appreciated that embodiments of the invention described herein may be comprised of one or more conventional processors and unique stored program instructions that control the one or more processors to implement in conjunction with certain non processor circuits some most or all of the functions for the systems and methods as described herein. The non processor circuits may include but are not limited to radio receivers radio transmitters antennas modems signal drivers clock circuits power source circuits relays current sensors and user input devices. As such these functions may be interpreted as steps of a method to distribute information and control signals between devices. Alternatively some or all functions could be implemented by a state machine that has no stored program instructions or in one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs in which each function or some combinations of functions are implemented as custom logic. Of course a combination of the two approaches could be used. Thus methods and means for these functions have been described herein. Further it is expected that one of ordinary skill in the art notwithstanding possibly significant effort and many design choices motivated by for example available time current technology and economic considerations when guided by the concepts and principles disclosed herein will be readily capable of generating such software instructions programs and integrated circuits ICs and appropriately arranging and functionally integrating such non processor circuits without undue experimentation.

Certain modifications and improvements will occur to those skilled in the art upon a reading of the foregoing description by way of example a device having at least one microprocessor for storing data may be operable in the device before data transmission. Another example includes other advanced sensors as well as being incorporated into smart fabrics and protective wear. Advanced sensors include advanced sweat biomarkers pulse rate breath rate micro EKG micro O2 picture log voice log voice translate tissue safe X ray and combinations thereof. Smart fabrics incorporate the present invention and include active heat cooling kinetic energy generation electromagnetic energy harvesting wearable energy storage wearable data storage wearable processing wearable communications elastomeric actuators and combinations thereof. More generally the apparatus may be part of apparel and material for clothing wherein the clothing may be for lower body like socks and athletic underwear upper body like shirts and forearm bands or head like stocking cap or headband. The present invention is also incorporated into enhanced protective wear such as enhanced helmets gloves and footwear. Enhanced helmets include those with MRI 3D audio visual enhancement mixed reality breath sensors aerosol nutrition and combinations thereof. Enhanced gloves include touch communications elastomeric grip gesture control and combinations thereof. Enhanced footwear includes power generation boots 3D tracking tactile alerts communication transceivers and combinations thereof.

The above mentioned examples are provided to serve the purpose of clarifying the aspects of the invention and it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that they do not serve to limit the scope of the invention. All modifications and improvements have been deleted herein for the sake of conciseness and readability but are properly within the scope of the present invention.

