---

title: Information processing system and communication method
abstract: An information processing system includes a mobile terminal including an electric wave receiving unit configured to receive an electric wave that includes belonging information of an electronic apparatus sent by a short range wireless communication, and an electronic apparatus display unit configured to receive a selection of the belonging information from a user, and request the information processing apparatus to perform a use start of the at least one electronic apparatus, the information processing apparatus including an information administration unit configured to read the information from a memory unit, which stores the belonging information and the at least one electronic apparatus, in response to the request from the mobile terminal to send the information, and return the read information to the mobile terminal, and an apparatus connection administration unit configured to request the at least one electronic apparatus to start a preparation of the use start.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09661449&OS=09661449&RS=09661449
owner: Ricoh Company, Ltd.
number: 09661449
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20160113
---
In recent years many electronic apparatuses such as a projector and a printer are prepared for network communications including a wireless communication. In many cases when the electronic apparatus is used from a mobile terminal such as a smart device or a PC the mobile terminal is connected to the electronic apparatus by a network communication without directly connecting the mobile terminal to the electronic apparatus by a cable. For example a method of causing a user to designate an electronic apparatus among multiple electronic apparatuses connected by a network communication is that a view of the electronic apparatuses in the same subnet is presented to a user and the user selects the electronic apparatus to be used from the view.

For example when a response device such as a printer responds to a request from a request device such as a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a request device displays an attribute of a response device enabled to communicate on a display unit and a selection of the attribute displayed on the display unit is received by the user to receive a selection of a group of the response device having the attribute for example Patent Document 1 .

However the method of causing the user to select the electronic apparatus from the view of the electronic apparatuses inside the searched same subnet has a problem that it is difficult for the user to find the desired electronic apparatus from the view. Therefore the method of causing the user to select the electronic apparatus from the view of the electronic apparatuses inside the searched same subnet may face a case where it is not easy for the user to find the desired electronic apparatus.

It is an object of at least one embodiment of the present invention to provide an information processing system in which a user may easily select the desired electronic apparatus.

It is a general object of at least one embodiment of the present invention to provide an information processing system that substantially obviates one or more problems caused by the limitations and disadvantages of the related art.

One aspect of the embodiments of the present invention may be to provide an information processing system including an information processing apparatus and a mobile terminal which are connected through a network wherein the mobile terminal including an electric wave receiving unit configured to receive an electric wave that includes belonging information of an electronic apparatus sent from the electronic apparatus by a short range wireless communication and an electronic apparatus display unit configured to request the information processing apparatus to send information of at least one of the electronic apparatus corresponding to the belonging information while designating the belonging information included in the electric wave display the information of the at least one electronic apparatus acquired from the information processing apparatus receive a selection of the belonging information from a user and request the information processing apparatus to perform a use start of the at least one electronic apparatus while designating the belonging information wherein the information processing apparatus including an information administration unit configured to read the information of the at least one electronic apparatus corresponding to the designated belonging information from a memory unit which stores the belonging information and the at least one electronic apparatus while associating the belonging information with the at least one electronic apparatus in response to the request from the mobile terminal to send the information of the at least one electronic apparatus while designating the belonging information and return the read information of the at least one electronic apparatus to the mobile terminal and an apparatus connection administration unit configured to receive the request from the mobile terminal to perform the use start of the at least one electronic apparatus and request the at least one electronic apparatus to start a preparation of the use start.

Additional objects and advantages of the embodiments will be set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will be clear from the description or may be learned by practice of the invention. Objects and advantages of the invention will be realized and attained by means of the elements and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

A description is given below with reference to the through of embodiments of the present invention. Where the same reference symbols are attached to the same parts repeated description of the parts is omitted.

The printer A the printer B the projector A the projector B and the interactive whiteboards A and B are examples of the office apparatus . Referring to the printer A the projector A and the interactive whiteboard A are installed in the meeting room A and the printer B the projector B and the interactive whiteboard B are installed in the meeting room B. The office apparatus receives a Bluetooth Low Energy BLE electric wave described later .

The office apparatus is connected to the information processing apparatus through a network such as a Local Area Network LAN . The information processing apparatus is connected to the mobile terminal through a network such as a LAN. The information processing apparatus is connected to the mobile terminal through the relay server installed in a network such as the Internet. The mobile terminal receives the BLE electric wave described later.

The office apparatus is an example of an electronic apparatus. While the office apparatus is powered on the office apparatus sends out a BLE electric wave including meeting room information piece. In comparison with WiFi the radio field intensity of the BLE electric wave is very weak. The reach of the BLE electric wave is kept within the area of the meeting room and a vicinity of the office apparatus for example several meters .

The BLE electric wave is an example of a radio wave for a short range wireless communication. Therefore the office apparatus may send out an electric wave including the meeting room information using a short range wireless communication such as Bluetooth Bluetooth is a registered trademark and Near Field Communication NFC .

The mobile terminal is a terminal device operated by the user. The mobile terminal is a terminal such as a smartphone a mobile phone a tablet PC and a notebook PC or the like operated by the user. The mobile terminal is connected to the information processing apparatus through a network such as a LAN. Further the mobile terminal is connectable to the relay server using a phone line such as a 3G line. The mobile terminal is connected to the information processing apparatus through a relay server . The mobile terminal receives a BLE electric wave sent by the office apparatus .

The information processing apparatus receives an operation request of requesting to operate the office apparatus from the mobile terminal and operates the office apparatus based on the operation request. The function of the information processing apparatus may be distributed to multiple computers.

The information processing apparatus and the relay server are substantialized by a computer having a hardware structure as illustrated in for example . illustrates an exemplary hardware structure of the computer of the first embodiment.

Referring to the computer includes an input device a display device an external I F a RAM a ROM a CPU a communication I F a HDD and so on mutually connected by a bus B. It is acceptable to form a structure such that the input device and the display device are connected when necessary.

The input device includes a keyboard a mouse a touch panel and so on by which the user inputs various operation signals. The display device includes a display or the like to display a processing result obtained by the computer .

The communication I F is an interface provided to connect the computer with various networks. Thus the computer performs data communications through the communication I F .

The HDD is an exemplary non volatile memory device that stores a program and data. The stored program and data are an operating system OS which is basic software controlling the entire computer application software hereinafter simply referred to as an application providing various function capabilities in the OS and so on. The computer may use a drive device using a flash memory e.g. a solid state drive SSD as a memory medium in place of the HDD .

The external I F is an interface with an external device. The external device is a recording medium or the like. With this the computer reads information from the recording medium and or writes information to the recording medium through the external I F . The recording medium is a flexible disk a CD a DVD an SD memory card a USB memory or the like.

The ROM is a non volatile semiconductor memory a memory device which can hold a program and or data even when a power source is powered off. The ROM stores programs and data for a basic input output system BIOS an OS setup a network setup and so on which are executed at a time of booting up the computer . The RAM is an example of a volatile semiconductor memory a memory device temporarily storing the program and or the data.

The CPU is an arithmetic device that reads the program and or the data from the memory device such as the ROM the HDD and the like. The read program or the read data undergo a process so as to substantialize a control or a function capability of the entire computer .

The information processing apparatus and the relay server are substantialized by the hardware structure of the computer as illustrated in for example .

For example the mobile terminal is substantialized by a hardware structure illustrated in for example . illustrates an exemplary hardware structure of the mobile terminal of the embodiment. The mobile terminal illustrated in includes a CPU a ROM a RAM an EEPROM a CMOS sensor an acceleration and direction sensor and a media drive .

The CPU controls the entire operation of the terminal apparatus . The ROM stores a basic input and output program. The RAM is used as a work area of the CPU . The EEPROM reads or writes data in conformity with a control of the CPU . The CMOS sensor captures image data in conformity with the control of the CPU to acquire image data. The acceleration and direction sensor is an electromagnetic compass that detects earth magnetism a gyrocompass an acceleration sensor or the like.

The media drive controls read or write store of data from or to a recordable media such as a flash memory. Data already recorded in the recordable media are read out or new data are written in the recordable media . The recordable media is freely attachable or detachable with respect to the media drive .

The EEPROM stores an operating system OS executed by the CPU association information necessary for a network setup or the like. An application for performing various processes of the first embodiment is stored in the EEPROM the recordable media or the like.

The CMOS sensor is a charge coupled device that converts light to electric charges and digitizes an image of an object. The CMOS sensor may be substituted by for example a charge coupled device CCD sensor as long as the image of the object can be captured.

Further the mobile terminal includes an audio input unit an audio output unit an antenna a communication unit a wireless LAN communication unit a short range wireless communication antenna a short range wireless communication unit a display a touch panel and a bus line .

The audio input unit converts a sound to an audio signal. The audio output unit converts the audio signal to the sound. The communication unit uses the antenna to communicate with the nearest base station apparatus by a wireless communication signal. The wireless LAN communication unit performs a wireless LAN communication with an access point in conformity with the standard IEEE 80411. The short range wireless communication unit performs a short range wireless communication using the short range wireless communication antenna .

The display is provided to display the image of the object various icons or the like. The display is made of a liquid crystal an organic EL or the like. The touch panel is mounted on the display and is formed of a panel of a pressure sensitive type or a static type. A touch position on the display is detected by a touch of a finger or a touch pen. The bus line is an address bus a data bus or the like for electrically connecting the above units and parts.

The mobile terminal includes a battery for a dedicated use. The mobile terminal is driven by the battery . The audio input unit includes a microphone for inputting the sound. The audio output unit includes a speaker for outputting the sound.

For example the mobile terminal is substantialized by the hardware structure illustrated in for example .

The information processing apparatus of the first embodiment is substantialized by the processing block illustrated in for example . is an exemplary processing block diagram of the information processing apparatus of the first embodiment. The information processing apparatus substantializes an apparatus information administration unit an apparatus connection administration unit an apparatus operation administration unit and an apparatus information memory unit .

The apparatus information administration unit receives a registration of an office apparatus from an apparatus administrator and administers the information of the office apparatus by storing the information in the apparatus information memory unit . The apparatus connection administration unit performs a connection a use preparation and an end for using the office apparatus based on a request from the mobile terminal . The apparatus operation administration unit operates the office apparatus based on a request from the mobile terminal . The apparatus information memory unit stores information of the office apparatus .

Referring to a portion unnecessary for an explanation of the first embodiment is omitted from the illustration of the processing block.

The mobile terminal of the first embodiment is substantialized by the processing block illustrated in for example . is an exemplary processing block diagram of an mobile terminal of the first embodiment. Referring to the mobile terminal substantializes a BLE electric wave receiving unit an apparatus view display unit and an apparatus operation request unit by executing an apparatus.

The BLE electric wave receiving unit receives a BLE electric wave from the office apparatus and provides a meeting room information piece included in the BLE electric wave to the apparatus view display unit . The apparatus view display unit displays an apparatus view acquired from the information processing apparatus and receives a start and an end of the meeting from the user when the meeting room information piece is designated. The apparatus operation request unit receives an operation for the office apparatus from the user and sends an apparatus operation request to the information processing apparatus based on the received operation.

For example the apparatus operation request unit requests the information processing apparatus to send a file output request or a file acquisition request to the office apparatus such as the printer A a projector A and the interactive whiteboard A.

Referring to a portion unnecessary for an explanation of the first embodiment is omitted from the illustration of the processing block.

The office apparatus of the first embodiment is realized by the processing block illustrated in for example . is an exemplary processing block diagram of the office apparatus of the embodiment. Referring to the office apparatus substantializes a BLE electric wave sending unit a process performing unit and a meeting room information memory unit by executing a program.

The BLE electric wave sending unit reads the meeting room information piece from the meeting room information memory unit and sends the BLE electric wave including the meeting room information piece. The process performing unit performs a process based on the apparatus operation request from the information processing apparatus . The meeting room information memory unit stores the meeting room information piece.

Referring to a portion unnecessary for an explanation of the first embodiment is omitted from the illustration of the processing block.

The apparatus name is a name of the office. apparatus . The apparatus type indicates a type of the office apparatus . The IP address is an example of information for connecting the office apparatus . The belonging meeting room is a meeting room in which the office apparatus is installed. The information processing apparatus specifies the meeting room in which the office apparatus is installed by using the meeting room information piece.

Hereinafter a detailed process of the information processing system of the first embodiment is described. In the information processing system of the first embodiment as illustrated in for example the information processing apparatus the mobile terminal and the office apparatus cooperate to perform the process.

The apparatus connection administration unit receives a meeting start request to start the meeting or a meeting end request to end the meeting in which the meeting room information piece is designated from the apparatus view display unit of the mobile terminal . The apparatus connection administration unit performs a connection a use preparation and an end to the office apparatus . The apparatus operation administration unit receives an apparatus operation request from the apparatus operation request unit of the mobile terminal . The apparatus operation administration unit operates the office apparatus based on the apparatus operation request.

The BLE electric wave receiving unit of the mobile terminal receives the BLE electric wave including the meeting room information piece from the office apparatus and provides the meeting room information piece included in the BLE electric wave to the apparatus view display unit . The apparatus view display unit sends an apparatus view request to the apparatus information administration unit of the information processing apparatus by designating the meeting room information piece included in the BLE electric wave. The apparatus view display unit acquires and displays the apparatus view of the office apparatuses installed in the meeting room which is specified by the meeting room information piece from the apparatus information administration unit of the information processing apparatus .

After the apparatus view display unit displays the apparatus view the apparatus view display unit receives an instruction to start or end the meeting from the user. After the apparatus view display unit receives the instruction to start or end the meeting from the user the apparatus view display unit sends a meeting start request to start the meeting or a meeting end request to end the meeting for using the office apparatus to the apparatus connection administration unit of the information processing apparatus by designating the meeting room information piece.

The apparatus operation request unit of the mobile terminal receives an operation to the office apparatus from the user. The apparatus operation request unit sends the apparatus operation request to the apparatus operation administration unit of the information processing apparatus based on the operation received from the user.

In the information processing system of the first embodiment the user operates the office apparatus as illustrated in by using an application of the mobile terminal . is a flowchart of an exemplary process performed in the information processing system of the first embodiment.

In step S the office apparatus starts to emit the BLE electric wave including the meeting room information piece specifying the meeting room to which the office apparatus belongs in which the office apparatus is installed . While the power of the office apparatus is powered on the office apparatus continues to emit the BLE electric wave including the meeting room information piece.

In step S the mobile terminal receives the BLE electric wave including the meeting room information piece from the office apparatus existing within a reach range of the BLE electric wave. For example the mobile terminal carried by the user receives the BLE electric wave including the meeting room information when the user approaches an adjacence of the office apparatus installed in the meeting room.

In step S the mobile terminal sends an apparatus view request to the information processing apparatus while designating the meeting room information piece included in the BLE electric wave. When the mobile terminal receives the BLE electric wave including multiple different pieces of the meeting room information piece the mobile terminal sends the apparatus view request to the information processing apparatus while designating the multiple different pieces of the meeting room information piece.

In step S the information processing apparatus refers to the apparatus information memory unit creates an apparatus view of the office apparatuses installed in the meeting room specified by the meeting room information piece and returns the created apparatus view to the apparatus view display unit of the mobile terminal . In a case where the apparatus view request designates the multiple pieces of the meeting room information piece the information processing apparatus groups the apparatus view for each meeting room and returns to the apparatus view display unit .

In step S the mobile terminal displays the apparatus view returned from the information processing apparatus using a user interface UI as illustrated in for example . is an exemplary image diagram of the UI displayed by the mobile terminal. The UI displayed in step S is an apparatus view screen .

The apparatus view is displayed on the apparatus view screen for each meeting room. A button of start meeting is provided for each meeting room on the apparatus view screen . When the user pushes the button of start meeting on the apparatus view screen the user selects the meeting room and instructs a start of a meeting. Because the office apparatus does not undergo the use preparation in the stage of step S a mark x indicating that a use is impossible is displayed before the apparatus name of the office apparatus .

In step S the user selects the meeting room to be started from the apparatus view screen and pushes the button of start meeting to instruct the start of the meeting. The mobile terminal requests to start the meeting for using the office apparatus by designating the meeting room information piece for the information processing apparatus .

In step S the information processing apparatus receives a request to start the meeting from the mobile terminal . The request to start the meeting designates the meeting room information piece for using the office apparatus . The information processing apparatus connects to the office apparatus installed in the meeting room specified by the meeting room information piece and performs the use preparation. In step S the office apparatus performs a use preparation process.

In step S the mobile terminal displays the apparatus view screen illustrated in . On the apparatus view screen a mark of indicating that the use is possible is displayed before the apparatus name of the office apparatus whose use preparation is completed. On the apparatus view screen the user selects by pushing an indication of the office apparatus among the office apparatuses whose use becomes possible.

The mobile terminal displays an operation receiving screen corresponding to the apparatus type of the office apparatus selected by the user. The operation receiving screen illustrated in is a screen image in a case where the user selects projector A . The user instructs an operation to the office apparatus from the operation receiving screen . In an example of the operation receiving screen illustrated in for example the user sets an object to be projected and a resolution and thereafter pushes a button of start projection so as to start the projection. The mobile terminal sends the apparatus operation request corresponding to an instruction of the operation received from the user to the information processing apparatus .

In step S the information processing apparatus operates the office apparatus based on the apparatus operation request. In step S the office apparatus performs the process based on the apparatus operation request received from the information processing apparatus .

In step S the user selects the meeting required to be ended in the apparatus view screen and pushes a button of end meeting so as to instruct to end the meeting. The mobile terminal requests to end the meeting to the information processing apparatus while designating the meeting room information piece.

In step S the information processing apparatus receives the request to end the meeting in which the meeting room information piece is designated from the mobile terminal . The information processing apparatus ends the use of the office apparatus installed in the meeting room specified by the meeting room information piece. In step S the office apparatus performs an end process.

In the flowchart illustrated in after the use preparation of the office apparatus is completed the mobile terminal operates the office apparatus through the information processing apparatus . However the office apparatus may be directly operated using the mobile terminal .

Further although the apparatus view screens and in are displayed in the order from meeting room A to meeting room B the display may be an order enabling the user to easily select the meeting room such as an order of a stronger strength of the BLE electric wave.

Referring to the mobile terminal exists in the meeting room A. Referring to the mobile terminal receives the BLE electric waves emitted by the printer A and the interactive whiteboard which are installed in the meeting room A and the electric wave emitted by the projector B installed in the meeting room B. The BLE electric wave emitted from the printer A and the interactive whiteboard A includes the meeting room information piece for specifying the meeting room A. The BLE electric wave emitted from the projector B includes a meeting room information piece specifying the meeting room B.

Thus the mobile terminal acquires the meeting room information piece for specifying the meeting rooms A and B from the received BLE electric wave. The mobile terminal requests the information processing apparatus to send the apparatus view while designating the meeting room information piece for specifying the acquired meeting rooms A and B and displays a view of the office apparatuses which are installed in the meeting rooms A and B for each meeting room.

Therefore the mobile terminal displays the apparatus view including the projector A in the meeting room A the printer B in the meeting room B and the interactive whiteboard B in the meeting room B from which the BLE electric waves are not received.

According to the first embodiment when the office apparatus installed in the meeting room is used the apparatus view installed in the meeting room is displayed on the mobile terminal for each meeting room. When the user selects the meeting room from the mobile terminal the office apparatus in the meeting room is enabled to be used using the mobile terminal .

According to the first embodiment in the case where the mobile terminal receives the BLE electric waves from the office apparatuses installed in the multiple meeting rooms as illustrated in the office apparatus is designated by selecting the meeting room. Therefore the user easily selects a desired electronic apparatus.

Further within the first embodiment in the case where multiple office apparatuses are installed in the meeting room the meeting room may be selected. Therefore the multiple office apparatuses installed in the meeting room are easily selected.

Within a first embodiment the meeting is started when the user selects the meeting room from the apparatus view screen . Within the second embodiment the meeting room is automatically selected and the meeting is started. Because the second embodiment is similar to the first embodiment except for a part of the second embodiment explanation is appropriately omitted.

In the information processing system of the second embodiment the user operates the office apparatus as illustrated in . is a flowchart of another exemplary process performed in the information processing system of the first embodiment.

The processes of steps S and S are similar to the processes of steps S and S of . In step S the apparatus view display unit of the mobile terminal detects a meeting room information piece whose number is the greatest among meeting room information pieces included in the received BLE electric waves. For example in an example of the meeting room information piece specifying the meeting room A is detected in the example illustrated in .

In step S the apparatus view display unit sends an apparatus view request to the information processing apparatus by designating the detected meeting room information piece. In a case where the apparatus view display unit receives the BLE electric waves including different meeting room information pieces the apparatus view display unit of the mobile terminal automatically designates the meeting room information piece whose number is the greatest among the meeting room information pieces included in the received BLE electric waves and sends the apparatus view request to the information processing apparatus .

In step S the information processing apparatus refers to the apparatus information memory unit creates an apparatus view of the office apparatuses installed in the meeting room specified by the meeting room information piece and returns the created apparatus view to the apparatus view display unit of the mobile terminal .

In step S the mobile terminal displays the apparatus view returned from the information processing apparatus . The mobile terminal requests to start the meeting for using the office apparatus by designating the meeting room information piece for the information processing apparatus .

Processes on or after step S are similar to the processes illustrated in . If the meeting room information piece included in the BLE electric wave in step S is one this meeting room information piece is detected. Referring to in step S the meeting room information piece whose number is the greatest is detected among the meeting room information pieces included in the received BLE electric waves. However the meeting room information may be detected using information e.g. the strength of the BLE electric wave useful for a prediction of the meeting room in which the mobile terminal exists.

Within a third embodiment a security token hereinafter simply referred to as a security token is used. illustrates another exemplary structure of information of an office apparatus stored in the apparatus information memory unit. Referring to the information the apparatus information of the office apparatus illustrated in includes a token as an item in addition to the items illustrated in . The office apparatus periodically updates the token and reports the updated token to the information processing apparatus . The apparatus information administration unit of the information processing apparatus reflects updates the token periodically reported from the office apparatus to the information of the office apparatus illustrated in .

In the information processing system of the third embodiment as illustrated in for example the information processing apparatus the mobile terminal and the office apparatus cooperate to perform the process.

Further the token is periodically reported from the office apparatus to the apparatus information administration unit and the reported token is reflected to the information of the office apparatus illustrated in . Further the apparatus information administration unit receives an apparatus view request designating the meeting room information piece and the token from the apparatus view display unit of the mobile terminal . The apparatus information administration unit refers to the apparatus information memory unit and returns the apparatus view of the office apparatuses installed in the meeting room specified by the meeting room information piece to the apparatus view display unit of the mobile terminal .

A match of the tokens is performed by checking whether the token matches any one of tokens associated with the office apparatus installed in the meeting room as illustrated in . As illustrated in within the embodiment the match of the tokens is checked to deal with a case where the reach range of the BLE electric wave from the office apparatus installed in the meeting room is beyond the other office apparatus . Therefore the match of the token is checked with a token broadcasted by any one of the office apparatuses grouped within the meeting room.

The apparatus connection administration unit receives a meeting start request to start the meeting or a meeting end request to end the meeting in which the meeting room information piece and the token are designated from the apparatus view display unit of the mobile terminal . The apparatus connection administration unit performs a connection a use preparation and an end to the office apparatus after checking the match of the tokens. The apparatus operation administration unit receives an apparatus operation request from the apparatus operation request unit of the mobile terminal . The apparatus operation administration unit operates the office apparatus based on the apparatus operation request.

The BLE electric wave receiving unit of the mobile terminal receives the BLE electric wave including the meeting room information piece and the token from the office apparatus and provides the meeting room information piece and the token which are included in the BLE electric wave to the apparatus view display unit .

The apparatus view display unit sends an apparatus view request to the apparatus information administration unit of the information processing apparatus by designating the meeting room information piece and the token which are included in the BLE electric wave. The apparatus view display unit acquires and displays the apparatus view of the office apparatuses installed in the meeting room which is specified by the meeting room information piece from the apparatus information administration unit of the information processing apparatus .

After the apparatus view display unit displays the apparatus view the apparatus view display unit receives an instruction to start or end the meeting from the user. After the apparatus view display unit receives the instruction to start or end the meeting from the user the apparatus view display unit sends a meeting start request to start the meeting or a meeting end request to end the meeting for using the office apparatus to the apparatus connection administration unit of the information processing apparatus by designating the meeting room information piece and the token.

The apparatus operation request unit of the mobile terminal receives an operation to be performed by the office apparatus from the user. The apparatus operation request unit sends the apparatus operation request to the apparatus operation administration unit of the information processing apparatus while designating the meeting room information piece and the token based on the operation received from the user.

In the information processing system of the third embodiment the user operates the office apparatus as illustrated in by using an application of the mobile terminal . is a flowchart of another exemplary process performed in the information processing system of the third embodiment.

In step S the office apparatus starts to emit the BLE electric wave including the meeting room information piece specifying the meeting room to which the office apparatus belongs in which the office apparatus is installed and the token. While the power of the office apparatus is powered on the office apparatus continues to emit the BLE electric wave including the meeting room information piece and the token. In step S the mobile terminal receives the BLE electric wave including the meeting room information piece and the token from the office apparatus existing within the reach range of the BLE electric wave.

In step S the mobile terminal sends an apparatus view request to the information processing apparatus while designating the meeting room information piece and the token which are included in the BLE electric wave. In step S the information processing apparatus refers to the apparatus information memory unit creates an apparatus view of the office apparatuses installed in the meeting room specified by the meeting room information piece after checking the match of the tokens and returns the created apparatus view to the apparatus view display unit of the mobile terminal .

In step S the mobile terminal displays the apparatus view returned from the information processing apparatus using the apparatus view screen as illustrated in for example . When the user pushes the button of start meeting on the apparatus view screen the user selects the meeting room and instructs a start of a meeting.

In step S the user selects the meeting room to be started from the apparatus view screen and pushes the button of start meeting to instruct the start of the meeting. The mobile terminal requests to start the meeting for using the office apparatus by designating the meeting room information piece and the token for the information processing apparatus .

In step S the information processing apparatus receives a request to start the meeting from the mobile terminal . The request to start the meeting designates the meeting room information piece and the token for using the office apparatus . The information processing apparatus connects to the office apparatus installed in the meeting room specified by the meeting room information piece and performs the use preparation after checking the match of the tokens. In step S the office apparatus performs the use preparation process.

In step S the mobile terminal displays the apparatus view screen illustrated in . On the apparatus view screen the mark of indicating that the use is possible is displayed before the apparatus name of the office apparatus whose use preparation is completed. On the apparatus view screen the user selects by pushing an indication of the office apparatus among the office apparatuses whose use becomes possible.

The mobile terminal displays the operation receiving screen corresponding to the apparatus type of the office apparatus selected by the user. The user instructs an operation to the office apparatus from the operation receiving screen . The mobile terminal sends the apparatus operation request corresponding to an instruction of the operation received from the user to the information processing apparatus while designating the meeting room information piece and the token.

In step S the information processing apparatus operates the office apparatus based on the apparatus operation request after checking the match of the tokens. In step S the office apparatus performs the process based on the apparatus operation request received from the information processing apparatus .

In step S the user selects the meeting required to be ended in the apparatus view screen and pushes a button of end meeting so as to instruct to end the meeting. The mobile terminal requests to end the meeting to the information processing apparatus while designating the meeting room information piece and the token.

In step S the information processing apparatus receives the request to end the meeting in which the meeting room information piece and the token are designated from the mobile terminal . The information processing apparatus ends the use of the office apparatus installed in the meeting room specified by the meeting room information piece after checking the match of the tokens. In step S the office apparatus performs an end process.

In the flowchart illustrated in after the use preparation of the office apparatus is completed the mobile terminal operates the office apparatus through the information processing apparatus . However the office apparatus may be directly operated using the mobile terminal .

Within the third embodiment when the office apparatus installed in the meeting room is used if the office apparatus becomes once usable from the mobile terminal and then the mobile terminal moves to a place where the mobile terminal cannot receive the BLE electric wave the office apparatus is not used after updating the token.

Within the first to third embodiments the BLE electric wave including the meeting room information is emitted by the office apparatus . Within a fourth embodiment the office apparatus emits the BLE electric wave including the apparatus information such as a MAC address of the office apparatus .

A part of an operation of the information processing system of the fourth embodiment is different from that of the information processing system illustrated in . Therefore an explanation of the same parts are appropriately omitted.

While the office apparatus is powered on the office apparatus sends a BLE electric wave including a meeting room information piece. The office apparatus reports Management Information Base MIB information to the information processing apparatus using a general purpose protocol such as a Simple Network Management Protocol SNMP . The information processing apparatus is enabled to acquire further detailed apparatus information of the office apparatus . Further the information processing apparatus acquires the IP address of the office apparatus by network scanning. The mobile terminal receives the BLE electric wave including the apparatus information and acquires the apparatus information from the BLE electric wave.

The information processing apparatus of the fourth embodiment is substantialized by the processing block illustrated in for example . is another exemplary processing block diagram of the information processing apparatus of the fourth embodiment. The information processing apparatus substantializes a common framework a WebAPI process unit a WebUI process unit a relay server process unit an apparatus search process unit a document process unit a setup information administration unit a device registration process unit an external device administration unit and a data memory unit .

The common framework is a mechanism in which multiple software inside the information processing apparatus mutually communicate and is used to send or receive the request or the data. The WebAPI process unit controls an HTTP S request through a WebAPI from the mobile terminal or the office apparatus which are connected to the network.

The Web Application Programming Interface API is an interface which is provided to receive a request from the mobile terminal and the office apparatus and previously determined and is structured by for example a function a class or the like. The WebAPI process unit serializes received requests for each request source and sends to each process unit through the common framework .

The WebUI process unit controls a display content of the Web server included in the information processing apparatus . The WebUI process unit structures a display content in conformity with the setup information and the file content for each user. The relay server process unit monitors whether there is a request accumulated in the relay server for each predetermined period. If there is a request accumulated in the relay server the relay server process unit acquires a request from the relay server and sends the request to each process unit. The relay server process unit receives a process result for the request sent to the process unit from each process unit and reports to the relay server .

The document process unit administers the file accumulated in the information processing apparatus as accumulation data. The accumulation data is a file stored in the data memory unit through an SMB a file made by the information processing apparatus or the like. The document process unit administers the accumulation data and performs a format conversion for the accumulation data.

The format conversion of the accumulation data includes a conversion of an image format and a conversion from a specific application format. The document process unit administers the accumulation data subjected to the format conversion.

The setup information administration unit administers account information accumulation data information user setup system setup and workflow setup in the data memory unit as setup information. The setup information includes setup information of the user and setup information of the system. The account information includes information for identifying the registered mobile terminal identification information a user name and a unique user number of the user using each mobile terminal and authorization information ID a password or the like for each user.

The accumulation data information includes a data format a data name a data quantity an update date a kind of a converted data format a file read date for each user or each mobile terminal and so on of each accumulation data accumulated in the information processing apparatus . Information or the like related to a setup unique to each user is included in the user setup. The setup information of the system includes information unique to the apparatus a setup common to all users or the like.

In a case where the apparatus information of the office apparatus is reported from the mobile terminal the setup information administration unit changes the user setup a setup of the input output device associated with the mobile terminal to the office apparatus that is temporarily reported. A period of maintaining the change is a period while a session with the mobile terminal is maintained or a period until when an explicit cutoff request to cut off is received from the mobile terminal .

The device registration process unit is a process unit for registering the mobile terminal . The device registration process unit displays for example a two dimensional bar code including information necessary for a device registration. The mobile terminal reads for example the two dimensional bar code displayed by a WebUI of the information processing apparatus using a camera functional capability and decodes the two dimensional bar code. Thus information for connecting to the information processing apparatus is obtainable.

The apparatus search process unit searches for the IP address of the office apparatus by means of network scanning based on the apparatus information reported from the mobile terminal and acquires the MIB information from the office apparatus . After acquiring the MIB information of the office apparatus the apparatus search process unit reports the apparatus information of the office apparatus along with information of the mobile terminal of the report source to the external device administration unit .

The external device administration unit the apparatus information of the office apparatus discovered by the apparatus search process unit to the mobile terminal to check whether a setup of the input output device of the information processing apparatus is changed.

The mobile terminal receives a message indicating that the office apparatus is connectable and may select whether the user setup is temporarily overwritten to indicate the input output device of the information processing apparatus . If it is selected to overwrite as described above the external device administration unit temporarily replaces the input output device for the user setup information administered by the setup information administration unit with the office apparatus . With this requests from the mobile terminal on or after this are sent to the office apparatus replaced from the input output device for the user setup information.

Referring to a portion unnecessary for an explanation of the fourth embodiment is omitted from the illustration of the processing block.

The mobile terminal according to the fourth embodiment is structures as illustrated in for example . is another exemplary processing block diagram of the mobile terminal of the fourth embodiment. The mobile terminal illustrated in substantializes a UI display unit a decode process unit a communication process unit a BLE process unit a job request unit an information processing apparatus registration process unit and a data store unit by executing the application.

The UI display unit is a process unit for controlling a GUI to be displayed for the user and displays a content registration information a confirmation screen and so on of the mobile terminal . Here the content is a document stored by the mobile terminal and file view information a file and so on which are acquired from the information processing apparatus . The registration information is authentication information connection destination information for the information processing apparatus information of the input output device set to the information processing apparatus or the like. The confirmation screen includes a selection screen for selecting whether the setup of the information processing apparatus is temporarily changed in a case where the connectable office apparatus is detected.

The decode process unit performs a process of decoding information such as the two dimensional bar code displayed on the WebUI of the information processing apparatus .

The two dimensional bar code includes network information for connecting to the information processing apparatus and ID information information for identifying the information processing apparatus used to uniquely identifying the information processing apparatus . The decoded information is administered as connection destination information registration information of the mobile terminal .

The information processing apparatus registration process unit establishes a connection with the information processing apparatus based on the information acquired by the decode process unit . If there is no problem in the connection the information processing apparatus registration process unit registers necessary information in the data store unit . The connection such as a LAN connection and a mobile connection to the information processing apparatus is checked.

The job request unit creates a request message in a case where a file view a file or the like is requested to be acquired from the information processing apparatus . In a case where the file view is acquired the job request unit creates a message of a file view acquisition request and sends the created message to the information processing apparatus through the communication process unit .

The communication process unit communicates with the information processing apparatus . For example in a case where the mobile terminal and the information processing apparatus are connected by the same network the mobile terminal communicates with the information processing apparatus through a wired LAN or a wireless LAN. On the other hand in a case where the mobile terminal and the information processing apparatus are not connected by the same network the mobile terminal communicates with the information processing apparatus using a data line such as a mobile phone provider.

The BLE process unit analyzes the BLE electric wave emitted from the office apparatus and acquires apparatus information of the office apparatus from the BLE electric wave. The apparatus information is information peculiar to the office apparatus and includes a MAC address for specifying the office apparatus .

In a case where the IP address of the office apparatus is fixed the IP address may be included as apparatus information of the office apparatus . The mobile terminal collects the apparatus information acquired by the BLE process unit and reports the collected apparatus information to the information processing apparatus .

The information processing apparatus determines whether the office apparatus is connectable to the information processing apparatus . In a case where the office apparatus is connectable to the information processing apparatus the information processing apparatus sends a check message indicative of whether the user setup is to be overwritten to add as the office apparatus to the mobile terminal . The mobile terminal displays a check screen on the UI display unit and reports a user selection to the information processing apparatus .

The information processing apparatus changes information of the input output device set to the information processing apparatus so as to use the office apparatus in the following operation. The BLE process unit reports cutoff information to the information processing apparatus at a time point when the BLE electric wave is not received from the office apparatus .

The information processing apparatus returns information of the set input output device back to the original information in a case where the mobile terminal is not operated for a predetermined period. This operation is in consideration of a case where the BLE electric wave is very weak and temporarily cut off. Further the mobile terminal may explicitly cancel the connection with the office apparatus through the UI display unit . In this case the information processing apparatus returns the information of the set input output device to the original information without being influenced by the state of the BLE electric wave.

Next a detailed process of the information processing system of the fourth embodiment is described with reference to the sequence diagrams of . In the information processing system of the fourth embodiment as illustrated in for example the information processing apparatus the mobile terminal and the office apparatus cooperate to perform the process.

In step S the mobile terminal analyzes the apparatus information included in the received BLE electric wave. In steps S and S the mobile terminal reports the apparatus information included in the received BLE electric wave to the information processing apparatus .

The WebAPI process unit of the information processing apparatus sends an apparatus search request to the apparatus search process unit in step S. In step S the apparatus search process unit performs a network scan. In step S the apparatus search process unit checks a connection with the office apparatus using the IP address acquired by the network scan. In step S the apparatus search process unit acquires the MIB information from the connected office apparatus .

After acquiring the MIB information of the office apparatus in step S the apparatus search process unit reports the apparatus information of the connectable office apparatus along with information of the mobile terminal of the report source to the external device administration unit .

In steps S to S the external device administration unit reports the apparatus information of the connectable office apparatus to the mobile terminal and checks whether the user wishes to change the setup of the input output device of the information processing apparatus . Here the selection is the setup of the input output device of the information processing apparatus is to change . The external device administration unit temporarily replaces the input output device for the user setup information administered by the setup information administration unit with the office apparatus .

In steps S and S the mobile terminal sends a cutoff report to the information processing apparatus . In step S the WebAPI process unit of the information processing apparatus sends a cutoff report to the apparatus search process unit . In step S the apparatus search process unit checks a communication state with the office apparatus .

In a case where an operation from the mobile terminal to the office apparatus continues the apparatus search process unit maintains the connection state with the office apparatus . In a case where a predetermined time elapses after the final operation from the mobile terminal to the office apparatus the apparatus search process unit determines the cutoff from the office apparatus .

When the connection from the mobile terminal to the office apparatus is disabled the apparatus search process unit sends a cutoff report to the external device administration unit in step S. In steps S and S the external device administration unit temporarily returns the input output device for the user setup information administered by the setup information administration unit back to the original input output device. In step S the mobile terminal displays a connection check screen based on the report of the state received from the information processing apparatus .

In the sequence diagram illustrated in it is possible to control a connection from the information processing apparatus to the office apparatus based on the authority set for each user. illustrates an exemplary structure of an authority table. In an authority table illustrated in an apparatus type of the office apparatus usable for each user and the functional capability of the office apparatus are set.

For example an authority check process using the authority table illustrated in is performed before step S illustrated in . The apparatus search process unit checks the authority of the user having the mobile terminal and performs processes on or after step S to the office apparatus usable by the user.

Within the fourth embodiment if the apparatus information included in the BLE electric wave emitted from the office apparatus is an IP address the meeting room in which the office apparatus is installed may be specified using the apparatus information illustrated in . Therefore the processes may be performed in a manner similar to the first to third embodiments.

Said differently when the office apparatus installed in the meeting room is used the apparatus view installed in the meeting room is displayed on the mobile terminal for each meeting room. When the user selects the meeting room from the mobile terminal the office apparatus in the meeting room is enabled to be used using the mobile terminal .

Within the fourth embodiment the mobile terminal reports the apparatus information of the office apparatus to the information processing apparatus when the mobile terminal detects the BLE electric wave from the office apparatus . The information processing apparatus performs a connection with the office apparatus based on the reported apparatus information. If the information processing apparatus and the office apparatus are connectable the mobile terminal may use the functional capability of the office apparatus by using the functional capability of the information processing apparatus .

Therefore within the fourth embodiment the user causes the mobile terminal to detect the BLE electric wave by approaching a desired office apparatus and may easily perform an operation of the detected office apparatus from the mobile terminal . As described within the fourth embodiment the user easily select a desired electronic apparatus.

The meeting room information is an example of belonging information recited in the claim. The BLE electric wave receiving unit is an example of an electric wave receiving unit recited in the claim. The apparatus view display unit is an example of an electronic apparatus display unit recited in the claim. The apparatus information administration unit is an example of an information administration unit recited in the claim. The apparatus information memory unit is a memory unit storing the belonging information and at least one electronic apparatus while associating these. The apparatus connection administration unit is an example of an apparatus connection administration unit recited in the claim. The apparatus operation request unit is an example of an electronic apparatus operation request unit. The apparatus operation administration unit is an example of an apparatus operation administration unit recited in the claim. The token is an example of security information.

All examples and conditional language recited herein are intended for pedagogical purposes to aid the reader in understanding the principles of the invention and the concepts contributed by the inventor to furthering the art and are to be construed as being without limitation to such specifically recited examples and conditions nor does the organization of such examples in the specification relate to a showing of the superiority or inferiority of the invention. Although an information processing system has been described in detail it should be understood that various changes substitutions and alterations could be made thereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

This application is based upon and claims the benefit of priority of the prior Japanese Patent Application No. 2015 008514 filed on Jan. 20 2015 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

