---

title: Enhanced error detection with behavior profiles
abstract: Methods, systems, and computer-readable media for detecting errors within a system by using behavior profiles are presented. At a first time, user requests may be received and serviced. The serviced user requests may be logged. Based on the logged user requests, profiles may be determined. At a second time, user requests may be received and serviced. The serviced user requests may be logged. The logged serviced user requests may be compared to the profiles determined at a first time. For example, the determined profiles may include an error rate for serviced user requests. At the second time, an error rate for the logged serviced user requests may be compared to an error rate included the determined profiles. Serviced users requests may be flagged based on the comparison.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09396058&OS=09396058&RS=09396058
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 09396058
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160202
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 932 813 filed Jul. 1 2013 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety herein.

Aspects of the disclosure relate to computer hardware and software. In particular one or more aspects of the disclosure generally relate to computer hardware and software that can be used to detect system errors with behavior profiles such as systems and methods for detecting errors based on changes in behavior with regard to how a web service interacts with computing devices

Large companies have become more complex and require a number of separate systems to communicate. As a result computing devices are being required to interact with more systems in order to accomplish their assigned functionality. For instance a web service that implements an application programming interface API may receive requests from a number of different entities. As a result a change in the web service or in one of the entities that issues the web service requests may cause an increase in errors and may reduce efficiency. Accordingly there is a need for systems and method addressing one or more of these shortcomings.

Aspects of the disclosure provide various techniques that enable detecting errors within a system by using behavior profiles.

Methods systems and computer readable media for detecting errors within a system are described according to an embodiment. At a first time user requests may be received and serviced. The serviced user requests may be logged. Based on the logged user requests profiles may be determined. At a second time user requests may be received and serviced. The serviced user requests may be logged. The logged serviced user requests may be compared to the profiles determined at a first time. For example the determined profiles may include an error rate for serviced user requests. At the second time an error rate for the logged serviced user requests may be compared to an error rate included the determined profiles. Serviced user requests may be flagged based on the comparison.

In an embodiment the user requests may comprise application programming interface API calls. The user requests may include parameters passed in an API call. Serviced user requests may be grouped based on the parameters passed in an API call. In an embodiment profiles may be determined for the API calls grouped together based on the parameters passed in an API call. The profiles may include an error rate for the grouped API calls.

In an embodiment at the second time the logged serviced user requests may comprise API calls. The user requests may include parameters passed in an API call. The logged API calls may be grouped based on the parameters they pass in the API call. The logged grouped API calls may include an error rate. In an embodiment an error rate for the logged grouped API calls may be compared against and error rate for a determined profile. A group of API calls may be flagged based on the comparison.

In the following description of various embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration various embodiments in which aspects of the disclosure may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural and functional modifications may be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

As noted above certain embodiments are discussed herein that relate detecting errors within a system by using behavior profiles. Before discussing these concepts in greater detail however an example of a computing device that can be used in implementing various aspects of the disclosure as well as an example of an operating environment in which various embodiments can be implemented will first be described with respect to .

I O module may include a microphone mouse keypad touch screen scanner optical reader and or stylus or other input device s through which a user of generic computing device may provide input and may also include one or more of a speaker for providing audio output and a video display device for providing textual audiovisual and or graphical output. Software may be stored within memory and or other storage to provide instructions to processor for enabling generic computing device to perform various functions. For example memory may store software used by the generic computing device such as an operating system application programs and an associated database . Alternatively some or all of the computer executable instructions for generic computing device may be embodied in hardware or firmware not shown .

The generic computing device may operate in a networked environment supporting connections to one or more remote computers such as terminals and . The terminals and may be personal computers or servers that include many or all of the elements described above with respect to the generic computing device . The network connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. When used in a LAN networking environment the generic computing device may be connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the generic computing device may include a modem or other network interface for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are illustrative and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used. The existence of any of various well known protocols such as TCP IP Ethernet FTP HTTP HTTPS and the like is presumed.

Generic computing device and or terminals or may also be mobile terminals e.g. mobile phones smartphones PDAs notebooks and so on including various other components such as a battery speaker and antennas not shown .

The disclosure is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the disclosure include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

According to one or more aspects system may be associated with a financial institution such as a bank. Various elements may be located within the financial institution and or may be located remotely from the financial institution. For instance one or more workstations may be located within a branch office of a financial institution. Such workstations may be used for example by customer service representatives other employees and or customers of the financial institution in conducting financial transactions via network . Additionally or alternatively one or more workstations may be located at a user location e.g. a customer s home or office . Such workstations also may be used for example by customers of the financial institution in conducting financial transactions via computer network or computer network .

Computer network and computer network may be any suitable computer networks including the Internet an intranet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a wireless network a digital subscriber line DSL network a frame relay network an asynchronous transfer mode network a virtual private network VPN or any combination of any of the same. Communications links and may be any communications links suitable for communicating between workstations and server such as network links dial up links wireless links hard wired links and or the like.

Having described an example of a computing device that can be used in implementing various aspects of the disclosure and an operating environment in which various aspects of the disclosure can be implemented several embodiments will now be discussed in greater detail.

In an embodiment an organization such as a bank or a financial institution may service user requests from a user computing device. For example a bank may service user requests generated at a computing device and routed to a bank computing device through a network for example the Internet. User requests may be generated by entities that work with the organization divisions within the organization or individuals such as bank customers. These requests may include user requests to electronically manage a customer account with the bank to access electronic information or any other suitable request.

In an embodiment server of may comprise a web server that services user requests for a financial institution and workstation of may comprise a user computing device for generating the request. Server may implement an application programming interface API that specifies a format for user requests. In an example the API may specify a format for looking up a bank customer. The API may allow for look ups using the following parameters a first name and last name a social security number a last name and address and any other suitable format. A user request may comprise an API call to look up a bank customer and the user request may take the form of one or more formats specified by the API. In an embodiment the API may specify a format for any suitable user request.

In an embodiment a user request may be serviced by the organization such as by server of based on the format. For example if a user request is not formatted according to the API specification an error may be generated and the user request may not be completed. In another example a user request may be formatted according to an API format and the user request may be completed. These serviced user requests may be logged as a user transaction.

In an embodiment a log of user transactions may be stored. illustrates an example of a log of user transactions according to an embodiment. comprises log and log entries . A user transaction may comprise of an application a channel a service one or more parameters and any errors that may have resulted from the transaction. An application may comprise the name of an application that for example uses one or more APIs. Log entries show example applications such as application 1 application 2 and application 3. A channel may comprise of a user that submitted that request such as an entity that submitted a user request. Log entries show example channels such as channel 1 and channel 2. A service may comprise of a particular service for an application for example a particular service specified by a particular API. Log entries show example services such as service 1 of application 1 service 1 of application 3 and service 3 of application 2. Parameters may comprise parameters that were passed with the transaction such as parameters that were passed with an API call. Log entries show example parameters such as param 1 and param 2 for service 3 of application 2 param 2 and param 3 for service 1 of application 1 and param 1 for service 1 of application 3. An error may comprise of a particular error generated by a request for example an error thrown by an API call not formatted in accordance with the API. An error may comprise of an invalid parameter or an invalid group of parameters. Log entries show example errors such as invalid param 1 and invalid param 2. In an embodiment log and log entries may include additional information or may omit information.

In an embodiment an organization such as a financial institution may service user requests from one or more entities such that a profile may be created. illustrates an example process for creating a profile according to an embodiment. The process of may begin at step where user transactions are monitored. In an example a user request that comprises an API call formatted in accordance with an API specification may be serviced and the transaction may be monitored. The monitoring may include monitoring user transactions for an application a channel a service one or more parameters and any errors that may have resulted from the transactions.

The process of may proceed from step to step where user transactions may be logged. For example a log such as log of may be generated based on monitored user transactions. In an embodiment log entries may be stored for a predetermined duration of time such that log entries that occurred before the predetermined duration may be deleted or log entries may be stored for an indefinite period of time.

The process of may proceed from step to step where profiles are determined for the logged transactions. A profile may comprise of behavior tendencies for user transactions grouped by for example a particular application a particular channel and a particular service. In an embodiment a user profile may be based on logged transactions over a predetermined period of time. A profile may also include error information for the grouped user transactions.

In an embodiment a user profile may be determined for a particular application channel and service. For example a profile may be determined for an application 2 channel 1 and service 3 where the profile is based on logged transactions for application 2 channel 1 and service 3 over a period of time. The period of time may be a day a week a month or any other suitable period of time. In an example where service 1 comprises an API the profile may include API specifications for service 1 such as parameters specifications for making an API call. In an embodiment error information such as an invalid parameter may be stored. Error information may be stored for particular API specifications such as for particular parameter combinations specified by an API. The error information may include an absolute number of errors an error rate or any other suitable value.

For example an API may specify that service 1 may be called using one or more first parameter s or one or more second parameter s . Error information may be stored such that logged errors that occurred when a user transaction passed the first parameter s are associated with the first parameter s in the profile and logged errors that occurred when a user transaction passed the second parameter s are associated with the second parameter s in the profile. Accordingly a first analysis may be performed to calculate a number of errors and an error rate for user transactions that passed the first parameter s based on the logged transactions that passed the first parameter s and a second analysis may be performed to calculate a number of errors and an error rate for user transactions that passed the second parameter s based on the logged transactions that passed the second parameter s . In this example a determined profile will comprise a number of errors and an error rate for logged transactions that passed the first parameter s and a number of errors and an error rate for logged transactions that passed the second parameter s .

In an embodiment a profile may comprise of behavior tendencies for user transactions grouped by various other combinations. For example the profile may comprise of behavior tendencies for user transactions grouped by a particular application and a particular service. In this example a determined profile for a particular application and a particular service may be determined using transactions logged for all channels. In another embodiment a profile may be based on a particular service or any suitable combination of elements.

In an embodiment an organization such as a financial institution may flag user transactions based on profiles. illustrates an example process for flagging user transactions based on a determined profile according to an embodiment. One or more profiles may be determined prior to the process of for example using the process of . In an embodiment the process of is performed prior to the process of . The process of may begin at step where user transactions are monitored. In an example a user request that comprises an API call formatted in accordance with an API specification may be serviced and the transaction may be monitored. The monitoring may include monitoring user transactions for an application a channel a service one or more parameters and any errors that may have resulted from the transactions.

The process of may proceed from step to step where user transactions may be logged. For example a log such as log of may be generated based on monitored user transactions. In an embodiment log entries may be stored for a predetermined duration of time such that log entries that occurred before the predetermined duration may be deleted or log entries may be stored for an indefinite period of time.

The process of may proceed from step to step where the logged user transactions may be compared to profiles. For example transactions logged for a particular application a particular channel and a particular service may be compared to a profile determined for the particular application particular channel and particular service. illustrate an interface that may be implemented to compare logged user transactions to profiles according to an embodiment. One or more webpages such as that illustrated in may be used to implement an embodiment. A webpage may leverage a number of web technologies in order to implement an embodiment such as HTML CSS Java script AJAX J2EE .NET and any other suitable technology. The webpage may include one or more forms such as an input field a text field a drop down menu a button a slider or any other suitable form. The webpage may further include an applet or any other type of suitable web application. In an embodiment may be implemented in a standalone application with suitable user interface elements.

In an embodiment drop down menus and may be dynamic. For example after selecting a particular application from drop down menu the channels for that application may be populated in drop down menu and the services for that application may be populated in drop down menu . illustrates an example where drop down menus and have been used to select application 2 channel 1 and service 2. Submit button may be used to submit this user transaction information.

In an embodiment user transactions may be displayed using column and column . Column may display parameter s and column may display a volume for transactions using particular parameter s . Parameters column may comprise parameter s specified by service 3 for example an API service that specifies parameter s for API calls. Entries may comprise the various parameter combinations specified by service 3. Column may display the volume of transactions that passed the particular parameter s in each respective row.

In an example displays a comparison between logged transactions and a determined profile for the parameters para 1 and para 2. Thus the logged transactions for application 2 channel 1 and service 3 that passed para 1 and para 2 are compared against a profile determined for application 2 channel 1 service 3 and passed para 1 and para 2. Similar comparisons may be displayed for entries . For example each entry may be clickable where clicking an entry displays a comparison for that entry.

In an embodiment displays a comparison using columns and . Column displays error names for any error contained in the logged transactions being compared. Entries display errors for invalid para 1 and invalid para 2. Column displays an absolute number of errors contained in the logged transactions being compared for the particular error in the respective row. Column displays an error rate for the logged transactions being compared for the particular error in the respective row. Column displays a difference between the error rate for the logged transactions being compared and an error rate contained in the profile being compared for the particular error in the respective row. In an example for error invalid para 1 the logged transactions being compared included 10 errors and this comprised an error rate of 1 . When the error rate of 1 was compared to the profile error rate for invalid para 1 the comparison resulted in a difference of 0 . In another example for error invalid para 2 the logged transactions being compared included 50 errors and this comprised an error rate of 5 . When the error rate of 5 was compared to the profile error rate for invalid para 1 the comparison resulted in a difference of 500 . For example the profile error rate for invalid para 1 may be 1 . Accordingly the difference been 1 and 5 may be calculated as 500 or 0.05 0.01 5.0. A difference in error rates or a difference in volume rates as described below may be calculated in a similar manner.

In an embodiment column may be calculated based on the difference between a base error rate and the error rate logged in the transactions displayed in column . The base error rate may by default be the profile error rate. An embodiment will be described below where the base error rate may be edited.

The process of may proceed from step to step where transactions are flagged based on the comparison. For example in column of the difference between the error rate contained in the logged transactions being compared and the profile being compared for error invalid para 1 is displayed as 0 and the difference between the error rate contained in the logged transactions being compared and the profile being compared for invalid para 2 is displayed as 500 . In an embodiment an entry may be flagged if a difference in error rate for that entry is greater than a threshold. For example the entry corresponding to error invalid para 2 may be flagged based on the 500 difference being greater than a threshold. The flag may comprise an indicator such as a visual indicator. For instance a flagged entry may include highlighting in a color such as red yellow or the like or may have a graphic displayed near the entry. Entries may be highlighted according to a configuration illustrated in .

In an embodiment steps and of may be performed at a different point in time than steps and . For example user transactions may be monitored and logged according to steps and at one point in time and the transactions may be compared to profiles and flagged according to steps and at another point in time.

In an embodiment a comparison between logged transactions and a determined profile such as the comparison displayed in may also comprise highlighting transactions based on a difference in volume. For example step of may further comprise comparing logged transactions to profiles based on a volume and step may further comprise flagging transactions based on the compared volume. displays a comparison between logged transactions and a determined profile for Application 2 Channel 1 and Service 3.

In an embodiment displays a comparison using columns and . Column displays parameter s and column displays a volume for transactions using particular parameter s . Parameters column may comprise parameter s specified by service 3 for example an API service that specifies parameter s for API calls. Entries may comprise the various parameter combinations specified by service 3. Column displays the volume of transactions that passed the particular parameter s in each respective row. Entry may display a total sum of transactions that called the service such as a sum of API calls for the service using any of parameter s combinations from entries . Column displays a rate for the logged transactions being compared for the particular parameter s in the respective row. For example column may be calculated based on a volume for the parameter s displayed in column for the particular parameter s compared against a sum for all transactions for the particular service displayed in column for entry . Column displays a difference between a volume for the logged transactions being compared and a volume contained in the profile being compared for the particular parameter s in the respective row.

In an example for para 1 the logged transactions being compared included a volume of 1200 and this comprised a rate of 53 . When the rate of 53 was compared to the profile rate for para 1 the comparison resulted in a difference of 0 . In another example for para 2 the logged transactions being compared included a volume of 1000 and this comprised a rate of 44 . When the rate of 44 was compared to the profile rate for para 2 the comparison resulted in a difference of 200 . For example the profile rate for para 1 may be 22 . Accordingly the difference been 22 and 44 may be calculated as 200 or 0.02 0.01 2.0. A difference in error rates or a difference in volume rates as described below may be calculated in a similar manner.

In an embodiment an entry may be flagged if a difference in volume for that entry is greater than a threshold. For example flagging for entries based on volume may be similar to flagging for entries based on error rate as described above. The entry for para 2 may be flagged based on the 200 difference being greater than a threshold. The flag may comprise an indicator such as a visual indicator. For instance a flagged entry may include highlighting in a color such as red yellow or the like or may have a graphic displayed near the entry.

In an embodiment flagging transactions based on a difference in volume may be configured similar to the configuration illustrated in . For example a floor base yellow threshold and red threshold for a difference in volume may be configured for particular parameter s combinations.

In an embodiment the above methods and system may be implemented in a production environment. For example a server such as server of may be implemented by an organization and may perform the methods described above. Server may be connected to various entities that work with the organization divisions within the organization or individuals such as bank customers that submit user requests.

In another embodiment the above methods and system may be implemented in a testing environment. For example a testing server may be implemented by an organization and may perform the methods described above. The testing server may be connected to one or more testing computing devices that submit user requests. In this example a profile compared to logged user transactions may be a profile determined in a production environment. Accordingly in an embodiment a server in a production environment may perform the method steps of and a server in a testing environment may perform the method steps of . In an embodiment a testing server may be connected to one or more entities in a production environment that submit user requests to the testing server. For example a testing server may implement a change to an existing system and the testing server may service user requests from entities in a production environment in order to determine how the changes may affect services offered such as web services.

Various aspects described herein may be embodied as a method an apparatus or as one or more computer readable media storing computer executable instructions. Accordingly those aspects may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects. Any and or all of the method steps described herein may be embodied in computer executable instructions stored on a computer readable medium such as a non transitory computer readable memory. Additionally or alternatively any and or all of the method steps described herein may be embodied in computer readable instructions stored in the memory of an apparatus that includes one or more processors such that the apparatus is caused to perform such method steps when the one or more processors execute the computer readable instructions. In addition various signals representing data or events as described herein may be transferred between a source and a destination in the form of light and or electromagnetic waves traveling through signal conducting media such as metal wires optical fibers and or wireless transmission media e.g. air and or space .

Aspects of the disclosure have been described in terms of illustrative embodiments thereof. Numerous other embodiments modifications and variations within the scope and spirit of the appended claims will occur to persons of ordinary skill in the art from a review of this disclosure. For example one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the steps illustrated in the illustrative figures may be performed in other than the recited order and that one or more steps illustrated may be optional in accordance with aspects of the disclosure.

