---

title: Sensor control switch
abstract: A method and apparatus for governing sensor data readings from a plurality of input sensors onboard a communications device. An inventory of available input sensors is generated, and a set of requested input sensors from an application running on the communications device is received. The requested input sensors that are absent from the inventory of available input sensors is identified, and based upon received measured values from the available input sensors, equivalent values for those absent input sensors are derived. The accuracy and precision of the measured and equivalent sensor values are estimated, and those measurements not meeting certain thresholds are filtered. The measured values and the derived equivalent values meeting the predetermined thresholds for accuracy and precision, and the filtered measured values and the filtered derived equivalent values are output to the application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09578493&OS=09578493&RS=09578493
owner: ADTILE TECHNOLOGIES INC.
number: 09578493
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160503
---
This application relates to U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 201 673 filed Aug. 6 2015 entitled SENSOR CONTROL SWITCH the entire disclosure of each which is hereby wholly incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to mobile communications devices and human computer interfaces therefor including integrated motion sensors and more particularly to cross platform motion sensor control.

Mobile devices fulfill a variety of roles from voice communications and text based communications such as Short Message Service SMS and e mail to calendaring task lists and contact management as well as typical Internet based functions such as web browsing social networking online shopping and online banking. With the integration of additional hardware components mobile devices can also be used for photography or taking snapshots navigation with mapping and Global Positioning System GPS cashless payments with NFC Near Field Communications point of sale terminals and so forth. Such devices have seen widespread adoption in part due to the convenient accessibility of these functions and more from a single portable device that can always be within the user s reach.

Although mobile devices can take on different form factors with varying dimensions there are several commonalities between devices that share this designation. These include a general purpose data processor that executes pre programmed instructions along with wireless communication modules by which data is transmitted and received. The processor further cooperates with multiple input output devices including combination touch input display screens audio components such as speakers microphones and related integrated circuits GPS modules and physical buttons input modalities. More recent devices also include accelerometers gyroscopes and compasses that can sense motion and direction. For portability purposes all of these components are powered by an on board battery. In order to accommodate the low power consumption requirements Advanced Reduced Instruction Set Computing Machine ARM architecture processors have been favored for mobile devices. Several distance and speed dependent communication protocols may be implemented including longer range cellular network modalities such as GSM Global System for Mobile communications Code Division Multiple Access CDMA and so forth high speed local area networking modalities such as WiFi and close range device to device data communication modalities such as Bluetooth.

Management of these hardware components is performed by a mobile operating system also referenced in the art as a mobile platform. Currently popular mobile platforms include Android from Google Inc. iOS from Apple Inc. and Windows Phone from Microsoft Inc. These three platforms account for over 98.6 share of the domestic U.S. market.

The mobile operating system provides several fundamental software modules and a common input output interface that can be used by third party applications via application programming interfaces. This flexible development environment has led to an explosive growth in mobile software applications also referred to in the art as apps. Third party apps are typically downloaded to the target device via a dedicated app distribution system specific to the platform. Although apps are executed locally on the device their functionality and utility may be significantly enhanced with data retrieved from remote sources. Indeed many apps function as mobile specific interfaces to web based application services. Yet notwithstanding the availability of device native apps for the most popular web applications users continue to rely on general purpose web browsers installed on the mobile devices to access websites. When accessed from a mobile web browser app alternative interfaces with larger fonts and simplified layouts that are more suitable for viewing content from the smaller display area of a mobile communications device may be presented.

User interaction with the mobile device including the invoking of the functionality of these applications and websites and the presentation of the results therefrom is for the most part restricted to the graphical touch user interface. That is the extent of any user interaction is limited to what can be displayed on the screen and the inputs that can be provided to the touch interface are similarly limited to what can be detected by the touch input panel. Touch interfaces in which users press tap slide flick pinch regions of the sensor panel overlaying the displayed graphical elements with one or more fingers particularly when coupled with corresponding animated display reactions responsive to such actions may be more intuitive than conventional keyboard and mouse input modalities associated with personal computer systems. Thus minimal training and instruction is required for the user to operate these devices.

However as noted previously mobile devices must have a small footprint for portability reasons. Depending on the manufacturer s specific configuration the screen may be three to five inches diagonally. One of the inherent usability limitations associated with mobile devices is the reduced screen size despite improvements in resolution allowing for smaller objects to be rendered clearly buttons and other functional elements of the interface nevertheless occupy a large area of the screen. Accordingly notwithstanding the enhanced interactivity possible with multi touch input gestures the small display area remains a significant restriction of the mobile device user interface.

Expanding beyond the confines of the touch interface the integrated motion sensors have been utilized as an input means. Some applications such as games are suited for motion based controls and typically utilize roll pitch and yaw rotations applied to the mobile device as inputs that control an on screen element. Along these lines more recent remote controllers for video game console systems also have incorporated accelerometers such that motion imparted to the controller is translated to a corresponding virtual action displayed on screen Additionally motion sensors may be used to switch from portrait to landscape views and vice versa while rotating and resizing the entire viewable content.

Utilizing the accelerometer and other motion input sensors in native apps is a relatively straightforward endeavor as the operating system platform provides an application programming interface that generates a consistent set of data for a given motion input independent of device specifics. Further sensor data consistency can be expected in end to end integrated mobile platforms such as iOS where the hardware components and the software components originate from a single source. In this regard third party developers need only target a single hardware software combination. Consistency in the capture and interpretation of motion sensor inputs represents a significant challenging however with mobile platforms such as Android where there is a wide range of hardware providers. Depending on the particular device the quality of the sensor data may differ which results in variable sensitivity and accuracy such that a consistent user experience in motion based interaction becomes impossible. While targeting a fewer subset of devices available on the market may be a viable approach with native apps this is not the case for web based applications as compatibility across the broadest range of devices and platforms is desirable. Optimizing the sensor data processing for each device and web browser application configuration may be possible but may be impractical because of the large number of combinations.

Accordingly there is a need in the art for an improved cross platform motion sensor control that standardizes sensor data so that web based applications and native apps alike across a variety of devices and mobile platforms can have consistent motion input interactivity on a universal basis. There is also a need in the art for estimating sensor quality and filtering the generated sensor data to adapt to each motion input interaction.

The present disclosure is directed to a uniform interface to the motion input sensors e.g. accelerometer gyroscope and magnetometer by mobile device applications running on different hardware configurations and platforms. This may be achieved by standardizing the generated sensor data with a polyfill function for missing sensor values that are used in an interactive motion experience along with unit conversions. Based on these operations any motion input provided to any device will generate a consistent set of sensor reading data. Furthermore in addition to sensor standardization sensor quality may be estimated for accuracy and precision and the sensor data may be filtered as necessary. The filtering procedure is understood to be adaptive to each motion based interaction with poor sensor readings being filtered and the filtering strategies being adjusted depending upon sensor availability.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure there is a method for governing sensor data readings from a plurality of input sensors onboard a communications device. These sensor data readings are to be passed to an application being executed on the communications device. The method may include generating an inventory of available input sensors integrated with the communications device. There may also be a step of receiving a set of requested input sensors from the application. The method may further include identifying requested input sensors absent from the inventory of available input sensors. The method may then proceed to receiving measured values from the available input sensors followed by a step of deriving equivalent values for the requested input sensors absent from the inventory of available input sensors based upon the received measured values from the available input sensors. There may be a further step of estimating accuracy and precision of the measured values and the derived equivalent values then filtering the measured values and the derived equivalent values failing to meet thresholds for accuracy and precision. Thereafter the method may include outputting the measured values and the derived equivalent values meeting the predetermined thresholds for accuracy and precision and the filtered measured values and the filtered derived equivalent values to the application.

Another embodiment of the present disclosure is directed to a method for synthesizing reported orientation data and reported motion data from a web browser application being executed on a mobile communications device for passing to a web browser sub application. The method may include identifying available input sensors from the reported orientation data and the reported motion data. There may also be a step of receiving from the web browser sub application a set of requested input sensors. Then there may be a step of flagging specific ones of the set of requested input sensors absent from the identified available input sensor followed by a step of receiving measured values from the available input sensor. The method may further include a step of deriving equivalent values for the flagged specific ones of the requested input sensors from one or more measured values received from the available input sensors. Furthermore the method may include normalizing each of the measured values and the derived equivalent values to respective standard units and applying a quality evaluation to each of the measured values and the derived equivalent values. The measured values and the derived equivalent values which satisfy a standard as defined under the quality evaluation may be designated as adequate sensor values while the measured values and the derived equivalent values not satisfying the standard as defined under the quality evaluation may be designated as inadequate sensor values. There may additionally be a step of selectively applying a processing operation to the inadequate sensor values as well as passing the adequate sensor values and the processed inadequate sensor values to the web browser sub application as a set of vetted sensor values.

Yet another embodiment of the present disclosure is directed to an apparatus for synthesizing reported orientation data and reported motion data from a web browser application on a mobile communications device for passing to a web browser sub application. The apparatus may include an input interface in communication with the web browser application and receptive to the reported orientation data and the reported motion data therefrom. The reported orientation data and the reported motion data may be parsed into sets of sensor data. There may also be a sensor cataloger that identifies missing sensor data from the sets of sensor data as well as a polyfill engine that derives equivalent values for the missing sensor data from the sets of sensor data. The polyfill engine may be receptive to identifications of the missing sensor data from the sensor cataloger. The apparatus may also include a sensor data evaluator that estimates accuracy and precision of the sets of sensor data and the derived equivalent values for the missing sensor data. The sets of sensor data and the derived equivalent values for the missing sensor data may be classified as adequate or inadequate in accordance with evaluations thereof against a standard by the sensor data evaluator. There may also be a filtering engine that filters the sets of sensor data and the derived equivalent values for the missing sensor data classified as inadequate. Additionally the apparatus may include an output interface to the web browser sub application that is in communication with the sensor data evaluator and the filtering engine. The sets of sensor data and the derived equivalent values for the missing sensor data classified as adequate and the sets of sensor data and the derived equivalent values for the missing sensor data filtered by the filtering engine may be output by the output interface as vetted sensor data.

Certain other embodiments of the present disclosure contemplate respective computer readable program storage media that each tangibly embodies one or more programs of instructions executable by a data processing device to perform the foregoing methods. The present disclosure will be best understood accompanying by reference to the following detailed description when read in conjunction with the drawings.

The present disclosure encompasses various embodiments of methods and apparatuses for cross platform motion sensor control. The detailed description set forth below in connection with the appended drawings is intended as a description of the several presently contemplated embodiments of these methods and apparatuses and is not intended to represent the only form in which the disclosed invention may be developed or utilized. The description sets forth the functions and features in connection with the illustrated embodiments. It is to be understood however that the same or equivalent functions may be accomplished by different embodiments that are also intended to be encompassed within the scope of the present disclosure. It is further understood that the use of relational terms such as first and second and the like are used solely to distinguish one from another entity without necessarily requiring or implying any actual such relationship or order between such entities.

The mobile communications device is understood to implement a wide range of functionality through different software applications which are colloquially known as apps in the mobile device context. The software applications are comprised of pre programmed instructions that are executed by a central processor and that may be stored on a memory . The results of these executed instructions may be output for viewing by a user and the sequence parameters of those instructions may be modified via inputs from the user. To this end the central processor interfaces with an input output subsystem that manages the output functionality of a display and the input functionality of a touch screen and one or more buttons .

In a conventional smartphone device the user primarily interacts with a graphical user interface that is generated on the display and includes various user interface elements that can be activated based on haptic inputs received on the touch screen at positions corresponding to the underlying displayed interface element. One of the buttons may serve a general purpose escape function while another may serve to power up or power down the mobile communications device . Additionally there may be other buttons and switches for controlling volume limiting haptic entry and so forth. Those having ordinary skill in the art will recognize other possible input output devices that could be integrated into the mobile communications device and the purposes such devices would serve. Other smartphone devices may include keyboards not shown and other mechanical input devices.

The mobile communications device includes several other peripheral devices. One of the more basic is an audio subsystem with an audio input and an audio output that allows the user to conduct voice telephone calls. The audio input is connected to a microphone that converts sound to electrical signals and may include amplifier and ADC analog to digital converter circuitry that transforms the continuous analog electrical signals to digital data. Furthermore the audio output is connected to a loudspeaker that converts electrical signals to air pressure waves that result in sound and may likewise include amplifier and DAC digital to analog converter circuitry that transforms the digital sound data to a continuous analog electrical signal that drives the loudspeaker . Furthermore it is possible to capture still images and video via a camera that is managed by an imaging module .

Due to its inherent mobility users can access information and interact with the mobile communications device practically anywhere. Additional context in this regard is discernible from inputs pertaining to location movement and physical and geographical orientation which further enhance the user experience. Accordingly the mobile communications device includes a location module which may be a Global Positioning System GPS receiver that is connected to a separate antenna and generates coordinates data of the current location as extrapolated from signals received from the network of GPS satellites. Motions imparted upon the mobile communications device as well as the physical and geographical orientation of the same may be captured as data with a motion subsystem in particular with an accelerometer a gyroscope and a compass respectively. Although in some embodiments the accelerometer the gyroscope and the compass directly communicate with the central processor more recent variations of the mobile communications device utilize the motion subsystem that is embodied as a separate co processor to which the acceleration and orientation processing is offloaded for greater efficiency and reduced electrical power consumption. One exemplary embodiment of the mobile communications device is the Apple iPhone with the M7 motion co processor. It is to be understood that not all mobile communications devices include all of the accelerometer the gyroscope and the compass . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure however inputs may be inferred from combining measurements of the available sensors.

The components of the motion subsystem including the accelerometer the gyroscope and the compass while shown as integrated into the mobile communications device may be incorporated into a separate external device. This external device may be wearable by the user and communicatively linked to the mobile communications device over the aforementioned data link modalities. The same physical interactions contemplated with the mobile communications device to invoke various functions as discussed in further detail below may be possible with such external wearable device.

There are other sensors that can be utilized in the mobile communications device for different purposes. For example one of the other sensors may be a proximity sensor to detect the presence or absence of the user to invoke certain functions while another may be a light sensor that adjusts the brightness of the display according to ambient light conditions. Those having ordinary skill in the art will recognize that other sensors beyond those considered herein are also possible.

The present disclosure is directed to various methods and apparatuses for providing a uniform interface to the sensors of the mobile communications device particularly those for capturing motion input. As explained above although many mobile communications devices include each of the accelerometer the gyroscope and the compass this is not universal. Furthermore because of varying quality in the sensors the accuracy and precision of the sensor readings may likewise vary from one device to another. An important objective of a content producer especially when delivering content via the Internet is consistency of the user experience when interacting therewith. This objective is challenging when sensor quality is variable across the wide range of devices currently in use and so the various embodiments of the present disclosure contemplate a uniform interface to these sensors.

The exemplary embodiments will be described in the context of an interactive experience that is presented via a web browser application running on the mobile communications device . This interactive experience is disclosed in co pending and co owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 160 257 filed Jan. 21 2014 and entitled Motion and Gesture Based Advertising Activation the entirety of the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference. However it will be appreciated by those having ordinary skill in the art that the same apparatuses and methods may be utilized in connection with a native app or any other environment. With reference to the flowchart of this interactive experience may begin with a step of displaying content on a graphical user interface being rendered on the display of the mobile communications device . More particularly the graphical user interface is that of a web browser application with the content being retrieved from a website. The content may include conventionally activatable user interface elements such as a button a hyperlink. In accordance with a step a first external input that triggers such activatable user interface element is received. The external input can be a tap on the touch screen . In response to this input the next part of the user experience is initiated where the user interacts with the displayed content by providing various motions to the mobile communications device . Before this interaction begins the sensor data is standardized and filtered in accordance with the various embodiments of the various disclosure including a step of detecting missing sensor values and imputing the data for those otherwise missing sensors and a step of evaluating sensor data for activating adaptive filters. These two steps will be described in further detail below.

Once the aforementioned steps of standardizing the sensor readings and filtering the incoming data therefor the user interaction experience continues with a step of displaying user experience invocation instructions. The initial orientation of the mobile communications device is then calibrated in accordance with a step . The procedure therefor is described in further detail in co pending and co owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 802 649 filed Jul. 17 2014 and entitled Physical Orientation Calibration for Motion and Gesture Based Mobile Advertising Activation Sequence the entirety of the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

After calibration of the initial orientation the external input in the form of motion applied to the mobile communications device and sensed by the onboard sensors is received per step . Based upon the standardization and filtration factors determined at the outset of the interactivity sequence e.g. steps and the received sensor input is translated into quantified values according to step . The translated values are then processed and a response is generated. Specifically in a step the user experience is generated when there is a match between the translated quantified values and predefined values that correspond to the experience invocation instructions.

Referring now to the block diagram of a sensor control switch system or apparatus is comprised of various functional logical blocks with each block corresponding to a specific function. The logical segregation of these blocks however are by way of example only and not of limitation and any suitable configuration or organization may be readily substituted. is of a more particularized embodiment of the sensor control switch system for synthesizing the reported orientation data and reported motion data from a web browser application running on the mobile communications device and is illustrated as a series of interconnected data processing sequences. Embodiments directed to a corresponding method along these lines is also contemplated in accordance with the present disclosure and will be described with reference to the flowchart of .

As shown in the sensor control switch system is linked to a web browser application programming interface API which reports the orientation and the motion imparted to the mobile communications device . It is possible for mobile device platform native APIs to provide the same interface and the present disclosure is not limited to a browser based implementation. The web browser API generates a data feed that can be accessed by calling the DeviceMotion object and a DeviceOrientation object . It will be recognized that the DeviceMotion object and the DeviceOrientation object are specified by conventional web browser standards and the data provided through these objects originate from disjoint sensor readings. In some embodiments the DeviceOrientation may be derived from sensor fusion of all or in part of the accelerometer the gyroscope and the compass depending upon their inclusion in the mobile communications device . The DeviceOrientation object is understood to provide an estimate of the orientation as measured in Euler angles that is yaw pitch and roll and is derived from several stock hardware sensors of the mobile communications device . However it will also be appreciated that the orientation may be given in quaternion representations rotation matrix representations and so forth. The DeviceMotion object is understood to be an interface to a set of raw and derived sensor measurements including raw accelerometer measurements and a time interval corresponding to the frequency of the sensor measurements. If the sensor hardware is available the DeviceMotion object include the gyroscope readings as well as gravity corrected accelerometer readings that can isolate user induced motion on the mobile communications device . As indicated above the mobile communications device may include additional sensing devices such as those that are part of the location module the imaging module and the audio input . Similar browser API objects like the DeviceMotion object and the DeviceOrientation object may exist for these additional sensors where a call to the corresponding object from the web browser application is operative to produce the data from the sensors.

Typically the readings from the sensors are unsatisfactory with respect to accuracy and precision and results in poor interactions with motion driven user experiences. As will be described in further detail below improvements in accuracy with respect to device orientation are contemplated. Specifically the orientation may be determined by expressing the direction of gravity and magnetic north relative to the mobile communications device which are estimated using the accelerometer compass magnetometer and the gyroscope to the extent available. Filtering the dynamics of gravity and magnetic north directions is understood to improve the readings from the DeviceOrientation object . The dynamics of these directions are described by angular velocities of the mobile communications device which are directly related to the values reported by the gyroscope . Based upon this relationship the present disclosure contemplates the estimation of most device sensors from raw motion sensor readings and filtered orientation measurements. Only those sensor readings that are not provided via the data feed from the web browser API are derived to improve efficiency and only those sensor readings that are determined to be poor are subject to a filtering process.

Referring to the sensor control switch system includes an input interface that is in communication with a web browser application over the aforementioned web browser API . As indicated above the web browser API provides reported orientation data and reported orientation data and the input interface is receptive thereto. These collections of data from e.g. the DeviceMotion object and the DeviceOrientation object are understood to be parsed into sets of sensor data.

As shown in the block flow diagram of the first stage or procedure of the sensor control switch system involves a detection of which sensors are needed for the motion based user interface experience being presented to the user of the mobile communications device . In the method for synthesizing the reported orientation data and reported motion data from the web browser application this corresponds to a step of identifying available input sensors from the reported orientation data and the reported motion data. This method contemplates passing the synthesized orientation data and motion data to a web browser sub application e.g. the motion driven user experience being executed within the browser application and so there is also a step of receiving a set of requested input sensors therefrom. The first stage or procedure shown in the block flow diagram of also encompasses a step of flagging specific ones of the set of requested input sensors that are absent from the identified available input sensors. In the sensor control switch system shown in these three steps may be performed by a sensor cataloger .

Once the missing sensor readings are identified a polyfill engine generates equivalent values for the missing sensors based upon actual measured values from other sensors. This is understood to involve an initial step of receiving the measured values from the available sensors followed by a step of deriving equivalent values for the flagged specific ones of the requested input sensors from one or more measured values received from the available input sensors. In this regard the polyfill engine is receptive to identifications of the missing sensor data from the sensor cataloger as well as the received measured values from the available input sensors. This process corresponds to a second stage or procedure in the block flow diagram of .

Continuing with this embodiment in a third stage or procedure gravity and magnetometer compass directions are estimated. According to one implementation the estimates are derived by calculating a normalized gravity vector based upon trigonometric identities on pitch roll and yaw as well as a dip corrected magnetometer vector. This is followed by a fourth stage or procedure of unit standardization which is understood to correspond to a step of normalizing each of the measured values and the derived equivalent values to respective standard units. Thus uniformity across different devices and web browser applications can be maintained. By way of example accelerometer data is normalized to meters per second squared gyroscope data is normalized to radians per second and orientation is normalized to standard Euler angles. The intervals of the various sensor data whether measured or derived are defined in terms of seconds.

The normalized sensor data e.g. gravity magnetometer accelerometer and gyroscope is then evaluated for precision and accuracy in a fifth stage or procedure . Prior to this evaluation a bias correction operation of the sensor data as well as a correction for Coriolis force may also be performed. This step may take place at any time around the normalization procedure so the order is presented by way of example only and not of limitation. In the embodiment of the sensor control switch system shown in this evaluation is handled by a sensor data evaluator . The evaluation is based on both qualitative and quantitative characteristics including smoothness monotonicity and uncertainty. If in a sixth stage or procedure e.g. the control switch determines which sensor data is satisfactory and which sensor data requires further filtering. In other words the sets of sensor data and the derived equivalent values for the missing data are classified as adequate or inadequate in accordance with evaluations against a standard. This standard may be predetermined that is static and preset or generated dynamically based on other available data including variations in measured values and the derived equivalent values over a given duration. The aforementioned procedure of determining adequate versus inadequate sensor data corresponds to a step of applying a quality evaluation to each of the measured values and the derived equivalent values.

The sensor data that has been evaluated to be adequate or satisfactory is then passed to an output interface in the sensor control switch system shown in . Alternatively in the sensor control switch system shown in the adequate sensor data may be referred to as vetted sensor data per block .

The inadequate sensor data on the other hand undergoes a filtering procedure to improve quality. In the sensor control switch system of there is a filtering engine that filters the sets of the sensor data and the derived equivalent values for the missing sensor data. According to one embodiment of the present disclosure this involves a multi stage process. First the filter strategy is selected based upon the identity of the sensor from which the data is to be filtered and which other sensors are present on the mobile communications device . In one implementation the filter strategy is selected from one of several predetermined filter strategies that may be stored in for example a repository . The selection may be made by a strategy selector . By way of example if the device orientation is to be filtered and the readings from the gyroscope are available then a sensor fusion filter is selected. If estimates of rotation were derived and the gyroscope is unavailable then the derived rotation is filtered. The specific parameters of the filtering operation that is the aggressiveness strength of the filters are selected by a parameter generator . Specifically the parameter generator derives one or more of the filtering parameters based upon an evaluation of the sets of sensor data and the derived equivalent values for the missing sensor data. Referring to the block flow diagram of the foregoing corresponds an eighth process or procedure of adaptively computing filtering parameters and a ninth process or procedure of applying the variable filter using the generated parameters to the inadequate sensor data.

The aforementioned filtering procedure is understood to generally correspond to a step of selectively applying a processing operation to the inadequate sensor values in the method depicted in the flowchart of . Continuing with this method there is also a step of passing the filtered inadequate sensor values to the output interface which is in communication with a web browser sub application as well as the adequate sensor values as previously determined by the sensor data evaluator or the control switch . Thus the filtered inadequate sensor values are also referred to as vetted sensor data per block . The aforementioned procedure of passing the filtered inadequate sensor data and the adequate sensor data is also referred to in the block flow diagram of as a tenth process or procedure of outputting the sensor data to the motion experience and sequencing.

Optionally various statistical data pertaining to the operation of the sensor control switch system may be transmitted to a remote database via an analytics interface . This information may be accompanied by an identifier of the particular mobile communications device to which it pertains. With additional reference to amongst the operating statistics data that is captured particularly following the unit standardization process or procedure and the accuracy and stability process or procedure include the identity of the web browser application the required polyfill functions and the required filters. This may be provided in a first data stream and generally referred to as device analytics. Operating statistics data generated once all of the measured and derived sensor data has been vetted as in block the initial orientation the average rotation speed the duration of the interactive motion driven user experience positioning geolocation history and so forth. This data may be provided in a second data stream and generally referred to as motion analytics. This data may be utilized later to improve the operation of the sensor control switch systems as well as the motion driven user experience.

Referring now the flowcharts of the procedure of synthesizing reported orientation data and reported motion data described above will be explained in the context of the overall interactive experience as generally set forth above with reference to the flowchart of . Additionally however the following explanation will include specific steps sequences pertaining to known mobile communications device web browser application combinations.

In step as particular to the device browser combination magnetometer readings are not found and so the magnetometer is flagged for the polyfill function. However all other sensors would be found. Thereafter per step the gravity readings are obtained from the DeviceMotion object and the magnetometer reading is derived from the DeviceOrientation object . In a step the rotation rate is converted to a standard unit of radians per second. The steps and are understood to correspond to the more generally recited step of detecting missing sensor values and imputing data.

In a step the smoothness and accuracy of the sensor values reported through the DeviceMotion object and the gravity and magnetometer directions as derived are evaluated. Typically this evaluation on the data reported from derived by aforementioned iPhone Safari browser combination meets the set standards and no further filtering is necessary. Thus according to a step all of the readings are evaluated as satisfactory and the sensor values and the data in the DeviceOrientation object are sent to the polyfill function to generate the magnetometer direction. The aforementioned steps and are understood to correspond to the more generally recited step of evaluating sensor data for activating adaptive filters.

As indicated above various operating statistics may be reported to the remote database . Specifically in a step the sensor data and the derived polyfill data are reported. Furthermore in a step vetted sensor readings are reported to the remote database .

The user interaction experience continues with a step of displaying user experience invocation instructions which corresponds to step . Along these lines in a step similar to step the initial orientation of the mobile communications device is calibrated. Before this step however there The external input in the form of motion applied to the mobile communications device and sensed by the onboard sensors is received per step similar to step . Based upon the standardization and filtration factors determined at the outset of the interactivity sequence e.g. steps and the received sensor input is translated into quantified values according to step similar to step . The translated values are then processed and a response is generated in a step similar to step where the user experience is generated when there is a match between the translated quantified values and predefined values that correspond to the experience invocation instructions.

In step as particular to the device browser combination magnetometer readings are not found and so the magnetometer is flagged for the polyfill function. However all other sensors are be found. Thereafter per step the gravity readings are obtained from the DeviceMotion object and the magnetometer reading is derived from the DeviceOrientation object . In a step the interval between sensor readings is converted to seconds. The steps and are understood to correspond to the more generally recited step of detecting missing sensor values and imputing data.

In a step the smoothness and accuracy of the sensor values reported through the DeviceMotion object and the gravity and magnetometer directions as derived are evaluated. Unlike the aforementioned iPhone Safari browser combination the evaluation of the data reported from derived by the Samsung SG V and Chrome browser combination is oftentimes unsatisfactory with respect to the gravity and magnetometer readings per step and therefore in a step the parameters for the sensor fusion filter are estimated and then applied to the gravity and magnetometer values. The steps and therefore correspond to the more generally recited step of evaluating sensor data for activating adaptive filters.

Again the operating statistics may be reported to the remote database . In a step the sensor data the derived polyfill data the accuracy data and the filter parameter data are reported. Similarly in a step the vetted sensor readings are reported to the remote database .

The user interaction experience continues with a step of displaying user experience invocation instructions which corresponds to step . Along these lines in a step similar to step the initial orientation of the mobile communications device is calibrated as described above. The external input in the form of motion applied to the mobile communications device and sensed by the onboard sensors is received per step similar to step . Based upon the standardization and filtration factors determined at the outset of the interactivity sequence e.g. steps and and steps the received sensor input is translated into quantified values according to step similar to step . The translated values are then processed and a response is generated in a step similar to step where the user experience is generated when there is a match between the translated quantified values and predefined values that correspond to the experience invocation instructions.

In step as particular to the device browser combination magnetometer readings are not found gravity readings are not found and gyroscope readings are not found and so the magnetometer gravity and gyroscope are flagged for the polyfill function. However all other sensors are found. Thereafter per step the gravity and the magnetometer readings are derived from the DeviceOrientation object . In a step the interval between sensor readings is converted to seconds. The steps and are understood to correspond to the more generally recited step of detecting missing sensor values and imputing data.

In a step the smoothness and accuracy of the sensor values reported through the DeviceMotion object and the gravity and magnetometer directions as derived are evaluated. The evaluation of the data reported from derived by the Samsung SG V and stock system browser combination is oftentimes unsatisfactory with respect to the gravity magnetometer and gyroscope readings per step and therefore in a step the parameters for the gyroscope filter are estimated and then applied to the gravity and magnetometer values. The steps and therefore correspond to the more generally recited step of evaluating sensor data for activating adaptive filters.

Like the other embodiments the operating statistics may be reported to the remote database . In a step the sensor data the derived polyfill data the accuracy data and the filter parameter data are reported. Similarly in a step the vetted sensor readings are reported to the remote database .

The user interaction experience continues with a step of displaying user experience invocation instructions which corresponds to step . Along these lines in a step similar to step the initial orientation of the mobile communications device is calibrated. The external input in the form of motion applied to the mobile communications device and sensed by the onboard sensors is received per step similar to step . Based upon the standardization and filtration factors determined at the outset of the interactivity sequence e.g. steps and and steps the received sensor input is translated into quantified values according to step similar to step . The translated values are then processed and a response is generated in a step similar to step where the user experience is generated when there is a match between the translated quantified values and predefined values that correspond to the experience invocation instructions.

The foregoing particulars regarding the contemplated methods as applied in different device browser combinations are provided by way of example only and not of limitation. Other mobile communications devices may have different on board sensors and other web browsers may implement sensor reporting differently. The methods of the present disclosure are envisioned to be applicable to any other mobile communications device or web browser application and so it will be appreciated that the presently contemplated sensor switch system can be readily adapted to such alternative configurations. Indeed other embodiments outside of the context of the web browser application described above are also envisioned.

A more generalized method for governing sensor data readings from a plurality of input sensors onboard the mobile communications device will now be described with reference to the flowchart of . The method begins with a step of generating an inventory of available input sensors integrated with the communications device. There is also a step of receiving a set of requested input sensors from an application being executed on the mobile communications device . These two step are similar to though not subject to any of the particulars described above in connection with steps and of the method illustrated in the flowchart of .

The method continues with a step of identifying the requested input sensors that are absent from the inventory of available input sensors. A similar step or procedure in which specific ones of the set of requested input sensors absent from the identified available input sensors has been described it is expressly contemplated that the step is not limited to an identification made through standard web browser objects.

Then in a step measured values from the available input sensors are received. Although a related step likewise involves receiving measured values from sensors again the step is not intended to be particular to any data passing modality as described above. Equivalent values for those sensors that are absent from the inventory of available input sensors are derived in accordance with a step . The equivalent values are understood to be derived from the received measured values from the available input sensors. The accuracy and precision of the measured values and the derived equivalent values are evaluated in a step . Any measurements that do not meet the set thresholds for accuracy and precision are filtered per step . Then in a step the measured values and the derived equivalent values including those that originally met the thresholds for accuracy and precision as well as those that did not meet the thresholds but were subsequently filtered in accordance with the step are output to the application. Again these steps may find correspondence to certain procedures outlined above in relation to the other embodiments but are not to be limited thereto.

The particulars shown herein are by way of example and for purposes of illustrative discussion of the embodiments of the present disclosure only and are presented in the cause of providing what is believed to be the most useful and readily understood description of the principles and conceptual aspects. In this regard no attempt is made to show details of the present invention with more particularity than is necessary the description taken with the drawings making apparent to those skilled in the art how the several forms of the present invention may be embodied in practice.

