---

title: Systems and user interfaces for data analysis including artificial intelligence algorithms for generating optimized packages of data items
abstract: Systems and user interfaces enable integration of data items from disparate sources to generate optimized packages of data items. For example, the systems described herein can obtain data items from various sources, score the data items, and present, via an interactive user interface, options for packaging the data items based on the scores. The systems may include artificial intelligence algorithms for selecting optimal combinations of data items for packaging. Further, the interactive user interfaces may enable a user to efficiently add data items to, and remove data items from, the data packages. The system may interactively re-calculate and update scores associated with the package of data items as the user interacts with the data package via the user interface. The systems and user interfaces may thus, according to various embodiments, enable the user to optimize the packages of data items based on multiple factors quickly and efficiently.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09652510&OS=09652510&RS=09652510
owner: Palantir Technologies Inc.
number: 09652510
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160412
---
This application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Patent Application No. 62 272 517 filed Dec. 29 2015 entitled SYSTEMS AND USER INTERFACES FOR DATA ANALYSIS INCLUDING ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE ALGORITHMS FOR GENERATING OPTIMIZED PACKAGES OF DATA ITEMS which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates to systems and techniques for accessing one or more databases and aggregating analyzing and displaying data in interactive user interfaces. More specifically the present disclosure relates to user interfaces and artificial intelligence algorithms for generating optimized packages of data items.

The approaches described in this section are approaches that could be pursued but not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore unless otherwise indicated it should not be assumed that any of the approaches described in this section qualify as prior art merely by virtue of their inclusion in this section.

Different entities may manage data that can be useful in generating packages of data items. Thus such data items may be stored in multiple and often incompatible databases. Given the disparate sources of data items it can be difficult for a user to gather such data and view the information in a user interface.

The systems methods and devices described herein each have several aspects no single one of which is solely responsible for its desirable attributes. Without limiting the scope of this disclosure several non limiting features will now be discussed briefly.

Disclosed herein are various systems and methods for integrating data e.g. data items from disparate sources to generate optimized packages of data items. For example the systems described herein can obtain data items from various sources score the data items and present via an interactive user interface options for packaging the data items based on the scores. The systems may include artificial intelligence algorithms for selecting optimal combinations of data items for packaging. Further the interactive user interfaces may enable a user to efficiently add data items to and remove data items from the data packages. The system may interactively re calculate and update scores associated with the package of data items as the user interacts with the data package via the user interface. The systems and user interfaces may thus according to various embodiments enable the user to optimize the packages of data items based on multiple factors quickly and efficiently.

It has been noted that design of computer user interfaces that are useable and easily learned by humans is a non trivial problem for software developers. Dillon A. 2003 User Interface Design. MacMillan Encyclopedia of Cognitive Science Vol. 4 London MacMillan 453 458. The present disclosure describes various embodiments of interactive and dynamic user interfaces that are the result of significant development. This non trivial development has resulted in the user interfaces described herein which may provide significant cognitive and ergonomic efficiencies and advantages over previous systems. The interactive and dynamic user interfaces include improved human computer interactions that may provide reduced mental workloads improved decision making reduced work stress and or the like for a user. For example user interaction with the interactive user interface via the inputs described herein may provide an optimized display of and interaction with graph data image data and or other data and may enable a user to more quickly and accurately access navigate assess and digest the data than previous systems.

Further the interactive and dynamic user interfaces described herein are enabled by innovations in efficient interactions between the user interfaces and underlying systems and components. For example disclosed herein are improved methods of receiving user inputs including methods of interacting with and selecting images graphs and other types of data translation and delivery of those inputs to various system components automatic and dynamic execution of complex processes in response to the input delivery automatic interaction among various components and processes of the system and automatic and dynamic updating of the user interfaces to for example display the relevant data from various different applications and or data sources . The interactions and presentation of data via the interactive user interfaces described herein may accordingly provide cognitive and ergonomic efficiencies and advantages over previous systems.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure provide improvements to various technologies and technological fields. For example existing data aggregation and analysis technology is limited in various ways e.g. limited in the types of applications or data sources the data may be drawn from loss of data interactivity etc. and various embodiments of the disclosure provide significant improvements over such technology. Additionally various embodiments of the present disclosure are inextricably tied to computer technology. In particular various embodiments rely on detection of user inputs via graphical user interfaces aggregation of data from different applications and data sources and automatic processing formatting and display of the aggregated data via interactive graphical user interfaces. Such features and others e.g. automatically determining an application or data source an inputted link is directed to accessing the application or data source to retrieve and display the requested data implementing interactivity of displayed data reflective of how the data would be displayed in its native application are intimately tied to and enabled by computer technology and would not exist except for computer technology. For example the interactions with displayed data described below in reference to various embodiments cannot reasonably be performed by humans alone without the computer technology upon which they are implemented. Further the implementation of the various embodiments of the present disclosure via computer technology enables many of the advantages described herein including more efficient interaction with and presentation of various types of electronic data.

Additional embodiments of the disclosure are described below in reference to the appended claims which may serve as an additional summary of the disclosure.

In various embodiments computer systems are disclosed that comprise one or more hardware computer processors in communication with one or more non transitory computer readable storage devices wherein the one or more hardware computer processors are configured to execute the plurality of computer executable instructions in order to cause the computer system to operations comprising one or more aspects of the above described embodiments including one or more aspects of the appended claims .

In various embodiments computer implemented methods are disclosed in which under control of one or more hardware computing devices configured with specific computer executable instructions one or more aspects of the above described embodiments including one or more aspects of the appended claims are implemented and or performed.

In various embodiments non transitory computer readable storage mediums storing software instructions are disclosed wherein in response to execution by a computing system having one or more hardware processors the software instructions configure the computing system to perform operations comprising one or more aspects of the above described embodiments including one or more aspects of the appended claims .

Further as described herein various embodiments of the system may be configured and or designed to generate user interface data useable for rendering the various interactive user interfaces described. The user interface data may be used by the system and or another computer system device and or software program for example a browser program to render the interactive user interfaces. The interactive user interfaces may be displayed on for example electronic displays including for example touch enabled displays .

As described above disclosed herein are various systems and methods for integrating data e.g. data items from disparate sources to generate optimized packages of data items. For example the systems described herein can obtain data items from various sources score the data items and present via an interactive user interface options for packaging the data items based on the scores. The systems may include artificial intelligence algorithms for selecting optimal combinations of data items for packaging. Further the interactive user interfaces may enable a user to efficiently add data items to and remove data items from the data packages. The system may interactively re calculate and update scores associated with the package of data items as the user interacts with the data package via the user interface. The systems and user interfaces may thus according to various embodiments enable the user to optimize the packages of data items based on multiple factors quickly and efficiently.

The systems and user interfaces described herein may be applied to various fields in which data items are to be optimally packaged together. One such field is television advertising in which advertising spots e.g. data items are matched with advertisers e.g. another type of data item prices for the advertising spots are determined and the advertising spots are packaged together into a deal. In this field and in other similar fields it may be challenging to package multiple products e.g. television spots with changing values into a single package which has a price that is attractive to buyers e.g. advertisers while maximizing value to the seller e.g. television networks . For example sales account executives selling advertisement spots may need to have an understanding of the expected value that advertisers can have by using the advertisement spots. This expected value is highly susceptible to change as it is largely based on the number of viewers who are expected to view the advertisement. In such a field sales account executives do not have a robust data driven way of distinguishing one advertisement spot from another and generally use intuition and an advertiser index to discern between deals with buyers.

The systems and user interfaces disclosed herein help overcome these challenges by employing interactive user interfaces and artificial intelligence algorithms for enabling a user e.g. an account executive at a television network a sales representative of a manufacturing company etc. to efficiently package data items e.g. television advertisement spots billboard space consumer products insurance plans etc. in a data driven way e.g. to maximize revenue. The systems enable aggregating analyzing and displaying data items in interactive user interfaces.

As used herein the term data item is a broad term including its ordinary and customary meaning and includes but is not limited to representations of any type of data that may be packaged. For example data items may include various events e.g. television shows movies advertisement spots trade fairs store wide sales product releases etc. . Data items may be associated with one another and further may relate to a given period of time place medium etc. For example an advertisement spot may be a period of time e.g. 1 minute during a commercial break of a television show. In another example an advertisement spot may be a portion of a television show where an advertiser may place a product logo etc. that may be viewed during the television show. In another example data items may include download codes for various electronic products reservation confirmation codes for participating in events purchasing products etc. Data items may represent any other relevant event of thing depending on the implementation and or the field of application of the system.

The systems and or user interfaces may be configured to evaluate and or score data items. For example data items may be evaluated based on their commercial value. The score e.g. commercial value may be general or may be specific to certain types of entities e.g. certain buyers of advertising spots related to a package of data items. For example certain advertisers may be particularly interested in targeting a demographic and the commercial value may be an estimated value to a member of that demographic. Using the user interface and the determined commercial value a user e.g. a seller may be enabled to more effectively negotiate deals with buyers.

The systems and or user interfaces may allow users to create various combinations e.g. packages of data items. The system may then evaluate the package and recommend changes that could be made to maximize the commercial value of the combination. For example a combination may comprise ten advertisement spots that a seller would like to sell to a buyer. Using an artificial intelligence algorithm the system may determine that one of the selected advertisement spots has a lower expected commercial return to the seller than another available advertisement spot. The service may then recommend replacing the selected advertisement spot with the other available spot.

Accordingly the systems and methods described herein may provide several benefits. For example the systems and methods described herein may allow the user to efficiently select data items or combinations packages of data items that are expected to bring a greatest value to a user e.g. a seller . Further the systems and methods may help users be aware of an expected value of a data item to ensure that the user does not sell the data item for far less than it is worth. Various other benefits of the systems and methods described herein a mentioned throughout this disclosure.

As mentioned above throughout the present disclosure advertisement spots during a television show may be used as an example of a data item. However there may be a variety of data items that may be suitable for use with the described systems and methods. For example suitable data items may include a billboard a cover of a video game an announcement during a sporting event consumer products insurance plans and or the like.

A user may access the user interface to communicate via the network . The user interface may be a web page such as a graphical user interface GUI a computer program or other service suitable for communicating with a network . Users may access the user interface by using a computing device such as a smartphone tablet laptop computer etc.

The network may facilitate communication between the user interface and the packaging web service . For example the packaging web service may be a computer program or system designed to aggregate analyze and output data for use in analysis of various information. In some embodiments the packaging web service and or other components of may call an application programming interface API to perform various functions. The packaging web service may receive data via the network from the event data store and or the user data store . One or both of the data stores may be databases. Each of the event data store and the user data store may store data items of various types as described above. The event data store may store and provide to the network various data items related to events spots and packages. A spot is a commercial unit that may be purchased by buyers from sellers. An event may include one or more spots. For example an event may be a television show and a spot may be a portion of a commercial break that an advertiser may purchase to advertise a product.

The term package as used herein is broad term for any data structure for storing and or organizing data including but not limited to any collection or combination of data items. In the field of television advertising as described above a package may be a collection of one or more spots. Additionally in the field of manufacturing a package may be a collection of consumer products. A package may have a related entity e.g. a user who created the package a user the package is recommended for and or the like.

Data stored in the event data store may further include any information related to events packages advertisers and or the like. For example the user data store may include data items such as a date of an event a cost to purchase a spot a number of users who have purchased spots a rating of the event and or the like.

The user data store may store and provide to the network various data related to users. For example such user data may include a user s transaction history with the packaging web service a user s stated preferences profile demographic information package information related to users and or the like.

The packaging web service may receive data from the event data store and or user data store and access the scoring engine and or the recommendation engine to analyze the received data. For example the scoring engine may perform evaluation and or analysis on the event data and or user data to determine a score for one or more events spots and or packages. The recommendation engine may execute one or more artificial intelligence algorithms to perform analysis on the event data and or user data to determine a recommended one or more events spots and or packages that may be specific or generic to a user. The packaging web service may compile the results of the scoring engine and or recommendation engine and or provide further analysis and output packaging data to the user interface event data store and or user data store .

As used herein the term database is broad term for any data structure for storing and or organizing data including but not limited to relational databases Oracle database mySQL database etc. non relational databases for example a NoSQL database an in memory database spreadsheets XML files and text file among others. The various terms database storage data store and data source may be used interchangeably in the present disclosure. Such data structures may be configured to store computer executable instructions that may communicate with various hardware processors to cause said processors to perform various functions.

The above system may be applied for purchasers and or for sellers. For example an event may be a television show and users may be purchasers interested in purchasing advertisement slots to use for advertising a product. Other users may be sellers who own advertisement slots for the television show and may access the system to determine suitable prices and target events for selling slots as well as conduct transactions with buyers.

Additional details regarding the systems and or services by which the functionality of the present disclosure is implemented are provided below.

For example the header may include a package score which may indicate a score for the currently viewed package as described below . The score may provide an indication of a value evaluation optimization or relative effectiveness of the package. Thus as the user interacts with the package via the interactive user interface e.g. by adding and removing data items the package score may be re evaluated by the system and indicated in the header .

Package score change indication may indicate a change in the score as compared to an initial score as a result of a change to the package. Thus as the user interacts with the package the user may be able to easily evaluate an effect that they are having on the score.

Indicators may provide a relative assessment of the package in relation to a population of packages. Such a population may include for example a historical set of packages associated with a particular network or advertiser. The system may automatically evaluate packages from the population to determine average values of a plurality of factors. For example as indicated the system may determine averages for numbers of categories relative pricing inventory show mix etc. Then the system may evaluate the current package in relation of the averages and indicate for each of the factors how the current package compares e.g. the user interface may provide a horizontal bar chart that indicates a relative amount above or below and average for the factor for the population.

The header may also include values of various calculated parameters regarding the package. These may include for example a total budget a cost per impression CPM an index e.g. an index of the advertiser an average rating a demographic and stream information.

All the values and indicator shown in the header may be updated interactively and automatically as the user interacts with the system via the user interface and changes aspects of a package.

The user interface portion of also includes a pie chart and a bar chart showing other information related to the package.

Via the user interface the user may select networks portions of the pie chart and or portions of the bar chart and apply filtering based on those selections by selecting an apply filters button .

An event may comprise multiple sub events. For example if an event is a television show sub events may be individual episodes of the show. If one or more episodes have already aired there may be data available regarding how many viewers watched the show the demographic information of viewers who watched the show trends in viewership etc. The show may also have an associated schedule if it has multiple viewings. All of this information and more may collectively be referred to as event information and may be stored in the event data store and or be analyzed by the packaging web service scoring engine and or recommendation engine .

As shown in one or more events and or spots within the events may be grouped into a unit which will be referred to herein as a package. A package may be created by a user via the user interface and or may be created by the packaging web service . For example a user may search from a group of events and or spots and select one or more to be included in a package . The packaging web service may access the scoring engine to determine a score for each individual event and or spot in the package and or for the package as a whole. The score may signify an analysis of the value in general and or specifically to the user of the events spots and or the package itself. For example the score may indicate a predicted economic value to the user.

The packaging web service may further access the recommendation engine to provide one or more recommended events and or packages. For example the recommendation engine may determine by an artificial intelligence algorithm that one or more available spots have higher scores than a spot in the package created by the user. In some implementations the artificial intelligence algorithm may comprise a collaborative filtering algorithm a monte carlo based algorithm a genetic algorithm a simulated annealing algorithm and or the like. The system may produce preferred recommendations meaning recommendations that provide a greater positive impact on the package score recommendations that the user is more likely to adopt based on past behaviors and or historical packages that have been accepted and or combinations of these two and or other factors.

The recommendation engine may recommend adding the one or more available spots to the package and removing the spot having a lower score. As shown in the user interface may display a list of recommendations . The recommendations may include events that have available spots that the user may remove from a current package and or events and or spots that the user may add to the current package. The user may select one or more spots from the recommendations and or select an icon next to the event to add or remove the selected number of spots from the current package. A user may toggle between viewing a list of recommended additions and a list of recommend removals by selecting the recommendation add and remove icons. The current package and recommendations may be shown side by side in the user interface to allow users to more easily edit the current package .

Advantageously as the user interacts with system via the interactive user interface and makes changes to the package including applying one or more recommendations the system automatically recalculates all scores and other information in the header . Thus the user may easily and efficiently edit the package and arrive at an optimized package solution.

The system may in some implementations track a history of changes to the package. illustrates a package history user interface element in which it is indicated that certain events have been removed from the current package. As shown in Event G has been removed from the current package . The pop up window may notify users of changes that have been made to the current package . For example the pop up window shows that Event G has been removed from the current package .

In some implementations the user may select to jump back to a previous package state in the history indicated in the pop up window .

Advantageously in some implementations the system automatically re determines recommendations as the package is changed. Alternatively and or in addition the system may re prioritize and or re order recommendations based on changes to the package.

The index editor may allow users to input different index values to evaluate a deal given specific deal metrics at different indexes.

At block the system may obtain user information. For example the packaging web service may request user information from the user data store via the network . The user information may be specific to a user or multiple users or may be generic to all users. For example a user may sign in using the user interface and the packaging web service may request information associated with the user s login information.

At block the system may determine a score for one or more spots and or packages. For example the packaging web service may communicate with the scoring engine to determine a score for one or more spots received from the event data store . The one or more spots may be selected based on the user information received from the user data store . For example scores may be determined for spots included in a package created by the user.

At block the system may determine a recommended subset of spots. For example the packaging web service may communicate with the recommendation engine to determine a recommended subset of one or more spots received from the event data store . The recommended subset of spots may be selected based on the user information received from the user data store . For example the recommendation engine may select spots from a package created by the user that the recommendation engine may recommend removing from the package. The recommendation engine may also determine that one or more spots have a higher score than specific spots in the user s package and may recommend adding such spots.

At block the system may generate a user interface for displaying events spots and or packages to the user. For example the user interface may be a web page associated with a web page the user accessed to login to the packaging web service . The user interface may display a variety of events including events that comprise spots included in a user s current package and a list of recommended spots.

At block the system may display the user interface to allow the user to view the events spots and or packages and then interact with the package as described above. Thus as inputs are received from the user the system may continuously and or in response to user inputs re obtain event and or user information if needed re determine scores re determine recommendations and or update the user interface.

In some embodiments the system may be in communication with various APIs to allow the system to export and or import data with external systems. For example after a user reviews a package in the user interface the user may export the package to an external system for carrying out a transaction using the package. The system may perform a call to an API that opens the external system and transfers the package data.

Data from such external systems may be imported for use in updating stored event data and or user data. For example deals that users have made in external systems may be imported as historical data for the completed transaction. Such data may be used in performing pre calculation of normalized data for use in scoring and or recommendations.

For packages currently being created and or edited by users newly available data e.g. data that was received after the package was created may not be applied to the package until requested by the user. The user may optionally refresh a package to incorporate the newly available data. Before refreshing the information the system may determine and display to the user the changes that will be made to the current package as a result of the refresh. The user may then have the option to proceed with the refresh.

The system may be configured to alert users based on information received from the user newly received information and or stored data. For example if newly available information would create a significant effect on a package the user is working on the system may alert the user. In some embodiments the alert and or notification is automatically transmitted to the user interface and or user device. The alert and or notification can be transmitted at the time that the alert and or notification is generated or at some determined time after generation of the alert and or notification. When received by the device the alert and or notification can cause the device to display the alert and or notification via the activation of an application on the device e.g. a browser a mobile application etc. . For example receipt of the alert and or notification may automatically activate an application on the device such as a messaging application e.g. SMS or MMS messaging application a standalone application e.g. a health data monitoring application or a browser for example and display information included in the alert and or notification. If the device is offline when the alert and or notification is transmitted the application may be automatically activated when the device is online such that the alert and or notification is displayed. As another example receipt of the alert and or notification may cause a browser to open and be redirected to a login page generated by the system so that the user can log in to the system and view the alert and or notification. Alternatively the alert and or notification may include a URL of a webpage or other online information associated with the alert and or notification such that when the device e.g. a mobile device receives the alert a browser or other application is automatically activated and the URL included in the alert and or notification is accessed via the Internet.

At block the system may compare a price of spot with historical similar spots. For example for an event that is a television show the show may have aired episodes previously and advertisers paid a given price to advertise during the previous episodes of the show. A user may have received a pricing offer from a purchaser for an upcoming episode. The system would compare the price paid for previous episodes with the price currently offered to the user. For a show that has no historical spots a default component score for relative pricing may be applied.

Additionally an evaluation and or comparison may be made between expected cost per unit of value for each spot. For example an advertiser may evaluate an event by determining an expected amount the advertiser expects to pay in order to have one viewer respond to the advertisement. If an advertiser expects to pay 30 000 dollars to advertise during a spot and expects to have 1 000 viewers respond to the advertisement as a result the cost per thousand impressions i.e. responses for that spot would be 30. These evaluations may be based on historical information information about the upcoming spot itself contextual information time of day location etc. By using a variable such as cost per thousand impressions for multiple spots the spots may be effectively be compared.

Moreover the expected cost may be further specified by determining a desired type of impression. For example an advertiser may target one or more demographic types. In this case only expected impressions from viewers that belong to the one or more demographic types would be included in the cost per thousand impressions calculation.

The number of impressions can be estimated in various ways. For example historical information may indicate a number of households that viewed a particular television show. However it may not be known how many viewers were in each household let alone how many of those viewers belonged to a given demographic. This information may be estimated based on the number of households. For example it may be estimated that there are two viewers in each household and that 50 of all viewers are male. Thus if the target demographic is males it may be estimated that there is one viewer in the target demographic for each viewing household.

Estimates may vary based on event. For example for a television show that historically draws a heavily female audience it may be estimated that only 10 of all viewers are male. In that case for every 5 households having an estimated two viewers per household only one viewer may be expected to be in the male demographic. In order to properly compare multiple spots estimates for each spots may generally apply identical factors such as target demographic and number of viewers per viewing household. In this way the cost per impression for each spot may be normalized to provide improved comparison.

In comparing prices adjustments may be made to historical and or current prices as part of a normalization process. The normalization process may improve comparability by eliminating effects of factors not being compared. For example adjustments may be made based on index in order to evaluate historical transactions for a given index. For example if a user is considering purchasing spots for an upcoming event in the upfront market historical deals that were made using the scatter market may be adjusted to accurately convey what the deal likely would have been in the upfront market. This may be done by first cancelling an expected effect of the previous index and then applying the new index to the previous transaction.

The normalization process may also include adjustments based on trends in cost. For example an expected or actual cost for a television show may increase during a month when more viewership is expected. As a result historical transactions can be adjusted to reflect a current situation. That is for example if a user is interested in a spot in February spots purchased in December may be adjusted to reflect an expected cost in February. One option for determining this is by calculating a ratio between a current expected price and a historical expected price to determine a scaling factor and multiplying the ratio by an actual historical price. In this way previous transactions can accurately be compared to current offers.

Comparing the price of a spot to historical spots may involve determining whether an adjusted cost per impression is high or low compared to the historical spots as well as the price s amount of deviation from the historical spots. For example a ratio may be determined with the difference between the determined cost per impression for a given spot and a scaled average cost per impression for historical spots being in the numerator and the standard deviation of the scaled average cost per impression for the historical deals being in the denominator. A positive value from this equation would indicate that a seller of the spot would be selling above the average selling price and would therefore indicate a good deal for the seller. If all historical spots are equivalent i.e. there is no standard deviation the standard deviation can be set to a percentage of the mean based on a coefficient of variation CV weighted by an inverse number of spots that all have the same guaranteed cost per impression. To determine the CV all historical spots that have a range of cost per impression can be used in calculating a standard deviation. Then for each spot to be sold the mean and standard deviation can be calculated and the standard deviation can then be divided by the mean. The result is essentially the percentage of the mean that the standard deviation constitutes for each spot in a given period of time. As an additional measure the result may then be weighted by the inverse of the number of spots in the set. For example the result can be divided by the number of equivalent historical spots and that quotient can be multiplied by the average cost per impression of the historical spots. That is the more spots there are with an identical cost per impression the more confidence that the value of the standard deviation should be small.

A relative pricing metric may be calculated by comparing spots to historical data. This may involve normalizing a spot score and comparing the normalized spot score to normalized historical spot scores. The normalized spot score may include an evaluation of the cost per impression for the particular spot.

Some computations including those described above regarding the relative pricing metric and related normalization process may apply pre computing to improve efficiency. For example rather than applying a normalization process to historical data at the time of comparison normalized data can be computed at the time the data is received and or at various other times. In some embodiments pre computing may be performed on a periodic basis. For example pre computing may be performed daily at expected low traffic times e.g. late at night for data collected during the day. The normalized data can then be stored and accessed as needed for comparisons and or other uses.

Some embodiments may also apply parallel computing in order to improve efficiency. For example a program for applying the relative pricing metric may have multiple threads of execution such that data may be normalized while data is aggregated for comparison.

At block the system may evaluate spot availability. Continuing the example of an event being a television show the show may have already committed several advertising slots to others and may have a very limited inventory available. A higher availability for the show may correspond to a higher overall score for the show for the seller. That is if a show has many spots available it is advantageous to sell such spots because they may be difficult to sell so the score for the seller will increase.

At block the system may determine possible conflicts for a spot. For example if there is an unusual demand for a given spot for a particular category of advertisers e.g. advertisers selling similar products this may be considered a conflict. As a result the selling price may increase for the spot and or the determined score for a seller of the spot may be decreased e.g. to indicate that the seller is not maximizing the value of the spot . In some instances the system may respond to a conflict by artificially increasing the cost per impression for the spot. A conflict metric of a spot for a particular user may be evaluated by computing the availability of the spot along with a measurement of possible conflicts in the available spots for the particular user.

At block the system may compare availability of a spot with other spots having similar characteristics. For example it may be determined whether the availability of a particular show is higher or lower than other shows that are aired on the same television network as the particular show. A lower availability compared to other shows on the network may correspond to a lower score for the show for sellers as such shows may be considered easier to sell. A relative availability metric may be determined for individual spots by calculating the availability of the spot and comparing the spot availability with the network average.

At block the system may evaluate demand for a particular spot. For example based on historical information it may be determined that a particular show is more likely to sell out than other shows. A show that is in high demand is considered easy to sell and therefore the score may be lowered for a seller. Demand may in some cases be determined by a rating associated with the event. For example if users have rated a show highly the show may be considered to have high demand.

At block the system may determine prioritization of a spot. Priorities may be determined by a user and or by the system. For example the system may prioritize a particular date or time of day. A user may prioritize a television show that the user particularly enjoys. A priority metric for an individual spot may be determined by adjusting a default priority value by an adjustment value set manually by the user or automatically by the system for the spot.

At block the system may determine an overall score of the event package and or spot. The overall score of a spot may be a combination of the calculations discussed above. Moreover the overall score of a package may be a combination of the scores of the individual spots in the package.

The overall score of a spot may be scaled based on overall scores of other spots. For example after assigning scores to multiple spots the scores of the multiple spots may be compared and one or more of the spots may receive a new score that indicates how the spot compares to the rest of the spots. For example the new score may be a percentage value such that it falls between 1 and 100. This may be determined by calculating a number of spots that a given spot scored higher than and dividing the number by the total number of spots.

The overall score may further be weighted in terms of the user s overall budget. For example the system may multiply the cost for each spot by the score for each spot and divide the result by the user s total budget. The system may calculate a summation of all of these values to determine an overall score for an event and or package.

At block the system may obtain user information such as user purchasing history. For example if the user has accessed the system and or another system previously to conduct transactions the transaction information may be obtained. User information may include information for both buyers and sellers. For example buyer transaction history may be used in creating recommendations for a seller and vice versa. Accordingly as used in reference to the term user may include advertisers networks and or the like.

At block the system may evaluate user preferences. The user preferences may be determined based on the obtained user information. For example if a buyer has frequently purchased spots for a particular show this may lead to an inference that the buyer prefers similar spots. Spots not purchased by a user on the other hand may or may not lead to an inference that the user does not prefer such spots.

Context of purchases may be used in determining preferences. For example if an advertiser bought a spot while it was particularly cheap the spot may not be a preference because the user may have simply been interested in the price. Various other factors may also be used such as availability of the show competition for the show with other shows and repeat feedback. These various factors may be aggregated along with user purchase history to compute predicted preferences for a user.

At block the system may determine a first ranking of the one or more events obtained by the system. The first ranking may be based on the evaluation of the user preferences. For example the system may determine events that match with user preferences. The predicted preferences discussed above may be used in ranking the events. For example the events may be assigned values based on the predicted preferences and then sorted according to the assigned values.

A variety of values may be used may be used in determining user preferences. For example values may include a historical number of spots purchased sold by the user for a particular event the total dollar value a user has spent on an event etc. For the number of spots purchases for an event that happens every week of the year may be weighted much more than just an event that occurs once a year e.g. the Super Bowl . For total dollar value a user purchasing very expensive spots may outweigh the advertiser s actual preference of purchasing a much cheaper but more frequent spot. These values may be used in weighting the rankings discussed above. The weighting may involve setting a peak distribution of spots. Spots may be optimized to achieve a lowest rank.

At block the system may obtain demographic information for the user. For example the demographic information may reflect one or more demographics that the user may want to target with advertisements.

At block the system may compare the one or more spots with the obtained demographic information. The obtained demographic information may be used in matching packages events and or spots with users. The matching may involve calculating or estimating an average number of viewers per viewing household of a particular event and or spot. A weighted average of viewers per viewing household may then be calculated for each user and or each demographic. Then for each advertiser and selling title a difference of an average number of viewers per viewing household for each demographic may be calculated and the absolute differences may be summed.

At block the system may determine a second ranking of the one or more spots obtained by the system. For example the second ranking may be based on the comparison of the one or more spots with the demographic information. For example the spots may then be ranked based on the summation of the absolute differences.

At block the system may compare the first and second rankings. A given number e.g. 100 of each of the first and second rankings may be unioned and the value of each unioned ranking to a current package may be determined. For each spot in a package the system may calculate an expected increase in value to the package by adding the spot. This calculation may involve determining the availability of each spot as well as available inventory for a particular user demographic etc. The spots that provide the greatest value e.g. increase in score of the package may be selected. The added value of each individual spot may also be determined. The added value of removing each individual spot from a current package may also be determined.

At block the system may determine a recommended subset of events of the one or more events. The recommended subset of events may be based on the comparison of the first and second rankings. For example a given number of the events and or spot determined to add the highest value may be provided and a given number of the events and or spots determined to add the highest value by being removed from the current package may be included in the subset.

In some embodiments as mentioned above the system may further employ one or more artificial intelligence algorithms in conjunction with in addition to and or as an alternative to the recommendation process of . Such artificial intelligence algorithms may include a collaborative filtering algorithm a monte carlo based algorithm a genetic algorithm a simulated annealing algorithm and or the like. For example such algorithms may be applied in updating scores based on newly available data and or adjustments to packages creating user preferences from user transactions and or profile information determining similarities between events for use in comparisons etc.

According to some embodiments the techniques described herein are implemented by one or more special purpose computing devices. The special purpose computing devices may be hard wired to perform the techniques or may include digital electronic devices such as one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs that are persistently programmed to perform the techniques or may include one or more general purpose hardware processors programmed to perform the techniques pursuant to program instructions in firmware memory other storage or a combination. Such special purpose computing devices may also combine custom hard wired logic ASICs or FPGAs with custom programming to accomplish the techniques. The special purpose computing devices may be desktop computer systems server computer systems portable computer systems handheld devices networking devices or any other device or combination of devices that incorporate hard wired and or program logic to implement the techniques.

Computing device s are generally controlled and coordinated by operating system software such as iOS Android Chrome OS Windows XP Windows Vista Windows 7 Windows 8 Windows 10 Windows Server Windows CE Unix Linux SunOS Solaris iOS Blackberry OS VxWorks or other compatible operating systems. In other embodiments the computing device may be controlled by a proprietary operating system. Conventional operating systems control and schedule computer processes for execution perform memory management provide file system networking I O services and provide a user interface functionality such as a GUI among other things.

For example is a block diagram that illustrates a computer system upon which various embodiments may be implemented. For example any of the computing devices discussed herein e.g. any of the aspects of the network environment of may include some or all of the components and or functionality of the computer system .

Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information and a hardware processor or multiple processors coupled with bus for processing information. Hardware processor s may be for example one or more general purpose microprocessors.

Computer system also includes a main memory such as a random access memory RAM cache and or other dynamic storage devices coupled to bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Such instructions when stored in storage media accessible to processor render computer system into a special purpose machine that is customized to perform the operations specified in the instructions. Main memory may also store cached data such as zoom levels and maximum and minimum sensor values at each zoom level.

Computer system further includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor . A storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or USB thumb drive Flash drive etc. is provided and coupled to bus for storing information and instructions. For example the storage device may store measurement data obtained from a plurality of sensors.

Computer system may be coupled via bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT or LCD display or touch screen for displaying information to a computer user. For example the display can be used to display any of the user interfaces described herein with respect to . An input device including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis e.g. x and a second axis e.g. y that allows the device to specify positions in a plane. In some embodiments the same direction information and command selections as cursor control may be implemented via receiving touches on a touch screen without a cursor.

Computing system may include a user interface module to implement a GUI that may be stored in a mass storage device as executable software codes that are executed by the computing device s . This and other modules may include by way of example components such as software components object oriented software components class components and task components processes functions attributes procedures subroutines segments of program code drivers firmware microcode circuitry data databases data structures tables arrays and variables.

In general the word module as used herein refers to logic embodied in hardware or firmware or to a collection of software instructions possibly having entry and exit points written in a programming language such as for example Java Lua C or C . A software module may be compiled and linked into an executable program installed in a dynamic link library or may be written in an interpreted programming language such as for example BASIC Perl or Python. It will be appreciated that software modules may be callable from other modules or from themselves and or may be invoked in response to detected events or interrupts. Software modules configured for execution on computing devices may be provided on a computer readable medium such as a compact disc digital video disc flash drive magnetic disc or any other tangible medium or as a digital download and may be originally stored in a compressed or installable format that requires installation decompression or decryption prior to execution . Such software code may be stored partially or fully on a memory device of the executing computing device for execution by the computing device. Software instructions may be embedded in firmware such as an EPROM. It will be further appreciated that hardware modules may be comprised of connected logic units such as gates and flip flops and or may be comprised of programmable units such as programmable gate arrays or processors. The modules or computing device functionality described herein are preferably implemented as software modules but may be represented in hardware or firmware. Generally the modules described herein refer to logical modules that may be combined with other modules or divided into sub modules despite their physical organization or storage. Examples of modules of the present disclosure include in some implementations packaging web service scoring engine recommendation engine and or user interface and or a module configured to generate user interfaces and or user interface data .

Computer system may implement the techniques described herein using customized hard wired logic one or more ASICs or FPGAs firmware and or program logic which in combination with the computer system causes or programs computer system to be a special purpose machine. According to one embodiment the techniques herein are performed by computer system in response to processor s executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another storage medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor s to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions.

The term non transitory media and similar terms as used herein refers to any media that store data and or instructions that cause a machine to operate in a specific fashion. Such non transitory media may comprise non volatile media and or volatile media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory . Common forms of non transitory media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk solid state drive magnetic tape or any other magnetic data storage medium a CD ROM any other optical data storage medium any physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM NVRAM any other memory chip or cartridge and networked versions of the same.

Non transitory media is distinct from but may be used in conjunction with transmission media. Transmission media participates in transferring information between non transitory media. For example transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications.

Various forms of media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution. For example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk or solid state drive of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to computer system can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infra red transmitter to convert the data to an infra red signal. An infra red detector can receive the data carried in the infra red signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus carries the data to main memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may retrieve and execute the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor .

Computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link that is connected to a local network . For example communication interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN card cable modem satellite modem or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN or WAN component to communicate with a WAN . Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.

Network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP in turn provides data communication services through the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet . Local network and Internet both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link and through communication interface which carry the digital data to and from computer system are example forms of transmission media.

Computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s network link and communication interface . In the Internet example a server might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet ISP local network and communication interface .

The received code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution.

Each of the processes methods and algorithms described in the preceding sections may be embodied in and fully or partially automated by code modules executed by one or more computer systems or computer processors comprising computer hardware. The processes and algorithms may be implemented partially or wholly in application specific circuitry.

The various features and processes described above may be used independently of one another or may be combined in various ways. All possible combinations and subcombinations are intended to fall within the scope of this disclosure. In addition certain method or process blocks may be omitted in some implementations. The methods and processes described herein are also not limited to any particular sequence and the blocks or states relating thereto can be performed in other sequences that are appropriate. For example described blocks or states may be performed in an order other than that specifically disclosed or multiple blocks or states may be combined in a single block or state. The example blocks or states may be performed in serial in parallel or in some other manner. Blocks or states may be added to or removed from the disclosed example embodiments. The example systems and components described herein may be configured differently than described. For example elements may be added to removed from or rearranged compared to the disclosed example embodiments.

Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

The term comprising as used herein should be given an inclusive rather than exclusive interpretation. For example a general purpose computer comprising one or more processors should not be interpreted as excluding other computer components and may possibly include such components as memory input output devices and or network interfaces among others.

Any process descriptions elements or blocks in the flow diagrams described herein and or depicted in the attached figures should be understood as potentially representing modules segments or portions of code which include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. Alternate implementations are included within the scope of the embodiments described herein in which elements or functions may be deleted executed out of order from that shown or discussed including substantially concurrently or in reverse order depending on the functionality involved as would be understood by those skilled in the art.

It should be emphasized that many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments the elements of which are to be understood as being among other acceptable examples. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure. The foregoing description details certain embodiments of the invention. It will be appreciated however that no matter how detailed the foregoing appears in text the invention can be practiced in many ways. As is also stated above it should be noted that the use of particular terminology when describing certain features or aspects of the invention should not be taken to imply that the terminology is being re defined herein to be restricted to including any specific characteristics of the features or aspects of the invention with which that terminology is associated. The scope of the invention should therefore be construed in accordance with the appended claims and any equivalents thereof.

