---

title: Removable media tray having a media restraint with translating and pivoting latching cams operable without the use of pinching
abstract: A media restraint for a removable media tray and slidably operable without the use of a pinching force. The media restraint slidably positionable on a track in a removable media tray and is operable without pinching. A pair of latching cams are used to engage the media restraint to the track and have serrated portions pivotally mounted to a bottom of the media restraint. The media restraint is operable by a finger of the user applying a downward force to the media restraint allowing a rack and pinion to horizontally translate a rack portion of the pair of latching cams away from the track and pivot the serrated portions away from the track and allowing the media restraint to be moved along the track. Upon removal of the downward force, a biasing member translates the latching cams back to reengage with the track.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09604802&OS=09604802&RS=09604802
owner: LEXMARK INTERNATIONAL, INC.
number: 09604802
owner_city: Lexington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160304
---
The present disclosure is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 15 060 860 entitled REMOVABLE MEDIA TRAY HAVING A MEDIA RESTRAINT WITH LATCHING PLUNGER OPERABLE WITHOUT THE USE OF PINCHING filed Mar. 4 2016 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 15 060 878 entitled REMOVABLE MEDIA TRAY HAVING A MEDIA RESTRAINT WITH PIVOTING LATCHING CAM OPERABLE WITHOUT THE USE OF PINCHING filed Mar. 4 2016 each assigned to the assignee of the present disclosure.

The field relates generally to media input feed systems for an imaging device having a removable media tray with an adjustable media restraint.

In 1998 Congress amended the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 29 U.S.C. 794 d to require Federal agencies to make their electronic and information technology accessible to people with disabilities. Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act applies to all federal agencies when they develop procure maintain or use electronic and information technology. Under Section 508 federal agencies must give disabled employees and members of the public access to information that is comparable to access available to others. These provisions apply to operable controls which are defined as components of a product that require physical contact for normal operation. Operable controls include but are not limited to media restraints. Operable controls are to be operable with one hand and not require tight grasping pinching or twisting of the wrist. Thus under these requirements the media restraint needs to be operable without the use of a pinching force.

Media restraints in removable media trays are typically provided along a bottom and side edge of a media area within the removable media tray for holding the media in place for feeding into an imaging device. The media restraints are moveable along tracks in the removable media tray to accommodate different media sizes. These media restraints are operated by a user pinching an actuation member or lever to release the media restraint from engagement with the track and while still pinching the actuation member or lever moving the media restraints to a new position in the removable media tray.

It would be advantageous to have a media restraint that can be operated without the use of a pinching force. It would be further advantageous that such a media restraint would also be moveable using a single finger.

Disclosed is a removable media tray having a media restraint that is operable without the use of a pinching force. The removable media tray comprises a bottom surface for holding media to be fed to the imaging device a track having a plurality of teeth along a length of the track and positioned on the bottom surface and a media restraint slidably engageable with the track. The media restraint includes a bottom plate having a first opening therethrough a front plate and a rear plate each depending from the bottom plate and a latching mechanism. Included in the latching mechanism are a first and a second pinion gear rotatably attached to one of the front and rear plates a predetermined distance from the bottom plate an actuator first and second latching cams and a biasing member. The actuator is slidably received between the front and rear plates and has a first position adjacent the top plate. A button depending from an upper end of the actuator and is aligned with the second opening. The actuator further has a first and a second rack portion engaged with the first and second pinion gears respectively. The first and the second latching cams each have a serrated portion for engaging with the track and a rack portion engaging with the first and second pinion gears respectively. The serrated portions have their ends pivotally mounted to the bottom plate. The first and second latching cams have respective first positions being engaged with the track when the actuator is in its first position. The biasing member biases the actuator and the first and the second latching cams in their respective first positions 

Upon application of a user supplied downwardly directed force to the button the actuator moves from its first position and translates downwardly with the first and second rack portions rotating the first and second pinion gears respectively. This action horizontally separates and translates the first and second latching cams away from their respective first positions and pivots the latch portions thereof away from the track allowing the media restraint to be translated along the track and further wherein when the downwardly directed force is removed the biasing member returns the actuator and the first and second latching cams to their respective first positions.

It is to be understood that the present disclosure is not limited in its application to the details of construction and the arrangement of components set forth in the following description or illustrated in the drawings. The present disclosure is capable of other embodiments and of being practiced or of being carried out in various ways. Also it is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting. As used herein the terms having containing including comprising and the like are open ended terms that indicate the presence of stated elements or features but do not preclude additional elements or features. The articles a an and the are intended to include the plural as well as the singular unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. The use of including comprising or having and variations thereof herein is meant to encompass the items listed thereafter and equivalents thereof as well as additional items.

Terms such as about and the like have a contextual meaning are used to describe various characteristics of an object and have their ordinary and customary meaning to persons of ordinary skill in the pertinent art. Terms such as about and the like in a first context mean approximately to an extent as understood by persons of ordinary skill in the pertinent art and in a second context are used to describe various characteristics of an object and in such second context mean within a small percentage of as understood by persons of ordinary skill in the pertinent art.

Unless limited otherwise the terms connected coupled and mounted and variations thereof herein are used broadly and encompass direct and indirect connections couplings and mountings. In addition the terms connected and coupled and variations thereof are not restricted to physical or mechanical connections or couplings. Spatially relative terms such as left right top bottom front back rear side under below lower over upper and the like are used for ease of description to explain the positioning of one element relative to a second element. These terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to different orientations than those depicted in the figures. Relative positional terms may be used herein. For example superior means that an element is above another element. Conversely inferior means that an element is below or beneath another element. Further terms such as first second and the like are also used to describe various elements regions sections etc. and are also not intended to be limiting. Where possible like terms refer to like elements throughout the description. A plurality of different structural components may be utilized to implement the media restraint of the present disclosure. Furthermore and as described in subsequent paragraphs the specific mechanical configurations illustrated in the drawings are intended to exemplify embodiments of the present disclosure and that other alternative mechanical configurations are possible.

 Media or media sheet refers to a material that receives a printed image or with a document to be scanned a material containing a printed image. The media is said to move along a media path a media branch and a media path extension from an upstream location to a downstream location as it moves from the media trays to the output area of the imaging system. For a top feed option tray the top of the option tray is downstream from the bottom of the option tray. Conversely for a bottom feed option tray the top of the option tray is upstream from the bottom of the option tray. As used herein the leading edge of the media is that edge which first enters the media path and the trailing edge of the media is that edge that last enters the media path. Depending on the orientation of the media in a media tray the leading trailing edges may be the short edge of the media or the long edge of the media in that most media is rectangular. As used herein the term media width refers to the dimension of the media that is transverse to the direction of the media path. The term media length refers to the dimension of the media that is aligned to the direction of the media path. Media process direction describes the movement of media within the imaging system and is generally means from an input toward an output of the imaging device. The terms spring seat or spring mount are used interchangeably.

Option assemblies may be removed or added to the stack. As each option assembly is added the media path is extended. The option assemblies are stackable allowing one or more option assemblies to be used with a single imaging device . An additional option assembly is typically positioned on top of the uppermost option assembly in the stack. Typically each option assembly may contain a different type of media such as letterhead or a different size such as A4 or a larger quantity of the same media type that is found in the removable media tray integrated into imaging device . Each removable media tray is sized to contain a stack of media sheets that will receive color and or monochrome images. Each removable media tray may be sized to hold the same number of media sheets or may be sized to hold different quantities of media sheets. Example media sizes include but are not limited to A6 8 11 A4 and 11 17 . In some instances the removable media tray in imaging device may hold a lesser equal or greater quantity of media than a removable media tray found in an option assembly .

Referring to removable media tray is shown. Removable media tray is sized to hold approximately 550 pages of 20 pound media which has a media stack height of about 59 mm. Removable media tray has a front wall side walls and a rear wall depending from a bottom . Media storage area is generally defined by front wall and side walls and bottom . Provided in each removable media tray are one or more adjustable media restraints shown to be placed at a rear and a side edge of the media storage area to accommodate different media widths and lengths. A handle is provided in front wall for removing and inserting removable media tray into imaging device or option assembly .

Provided on the bottom of removable media tray is a track on which media restraint travels and latches. The insets in show two configurations of the track . The left inset shows a track A having a plurality of horizontal serrations or teeth across the top A thereof. Track A is also illustrated as having two parallel sections each having a plurality of horizontal serrations . The right inset shows a track B having a plurality of vertical serrations or teeth along at least one of its sides. As shown serrations are provided on each of its sides B B . Media restraint engages with the track using a later described latching mechanism that engages with serrations or serrations . One or more guide rails may also be provided on the bottom for guiding the media restraint as it is moved between positions along track .

Referring to media restraint has a bottom plate which travels along track B and guide rails . Channels and are provided in the bottom surface of bottom plate and are sized to receive track B and guide rails respectively. Depending from bottom plate are a front plate and a rear plate that are joined by a top plate . A support plate is shown attached to the undersurface of bottom plate by fasteners . A latching mechanism is mounted between the front and rear plates and is used to engage the media restraint to the track B. An opening is provided in top plate to access latching mechanism . Top plate may be integrally molded as part of rear plate or as part of front plate . Rear plate is attached to front plate by one or more fasteners . Four fasteners are shown.

Referring to operation of latching mechanism is shown. Rear and top plates have been removed to show latching mechanism . As shown latching mechanism is positioned within a recess provided in front plate . In latching mechanism is shown in an engaged position with track B while in latching mechanism is shown in a disengaged position with respect to track B. Latching mechanism includes an actuator a first and a second latching cam A B a first and second pinion gear A B and a first and a second biasing member A B.

Actuator further includes a button portion on a top end thereof and a first and a second rack A B extending from a bottom end thereof toward the button portion . Button portion has a concave surface for receiving a fingertip of a user of the media restraint . First and second racks A B are shown located on outer surfaces A B of actuator . Depending from outer surfaces A B are a first and a second arm A B located approximately midway between the top and bottom ends . First and second pinion gears A B are rotatably fastened to one of front plate or rear plate . As illustrated in the referenced figures the first and second pinion gears A B are rotatably attached by fasteners to a lower portion of front plate adjacent to bottom plate . Actuator is positioned between the first and second pinion gears A B such that first and second racks A B are respectively engaged with first and second pinion gears A B.

Referring to first and second spring mounts A B depend from front plate and are respectively positioned beneath arms A B and above first and second pinion gears A B. First and second biasing members A B shown as first and second coil springs A B are respectively positioned between first and second arms A B and first and second spring mounts A B. First and second arms A B may be provided with posts A B that are aligned with posts A B on first and second spring mounts A B which are used for retaining first and second coil springs A B within the recess of front plate . First and second coil springs A B bias the actuator and the first and second latching cams A B into their respective first positions where latching cams A B are engaged with track B. First and second arms A B are biased against upper stops A B that depend from front plate when actuator is in its first position.

Referring to actuator and first and second latching cams A B are shown in their respective first positions engaged with track B. Track B and guide rails are shown in dashed line in . First and second latching cams A B are mirrored about track B and have planar serrated portions B that engage with vertical serrations on track B and rack portions A B that engage with first and second pinion gears A B respectively. As shown first and second latching cams A B are L shaped with rack portions A B extending upwardly through opening provided in bottom plate and planar serrated portions A B being parallel to bottom plate . Rack portions A B are translatable within opening . The ends A B of serrated portions A B are shown pivotally attached to support plate . Pins A B are provided at the ends A B respectively of planar serrated portions A B and are received into corresponding openings A B in support plate or directly into openings A B provided in bottom plate see should support plate not be used. Alternatively as shown in openings A B may be provided in ends A B that receive pins A B provided on support plate . The manner of attachments of the ends A B are illustrative only and should not be considered as limiting.

Referring to actuator and first and second latching cams A B are shown in their respective second positions disengaged from track B. Track B and guide rails are shown in dashed line in . Upon application of a user supplied downwardly directly force F indicated by the black arrow in to button portion actuator is downwardly translated from its first position compressing first and second coil springs A B with racks A B rotating first and second pinion gears A B respectively that in turn translates and separates first and second latching cams A B moving them from their first positions due to the translation of rack portions A B of the first and second latching cams A B respectively. This translation causes planar serrated portions A B to pivotally disengage from track B without the use of a pinching force allowing media restraint to be repositioned along track B. First and second lower stops A B may be provided on front plate below first and second upper stops A B to limit downward travel of actuator and provide tactile feedback to the user that media restraint has been disengaged from track B. Upon removal of the user supplied downward force F biasing members A B return actuator and first and second latching cams A B to their respective first positions. By applying the downward force F at an angle with respect to vertical in the desired direction of movement as shown in the user is able to move the media restraint along the track B with their finger without pinching the media restraint .

Referring now to various mounting arrangements for stops spring mounts or seats and the pinion gears are schematically illustrated. In stops S S S are shown mounted on the front plate bottom plate and rear plate respectively. Stop S is shown depending from the bottom of actuator . Spring mounts or seats ST ST are used for seating biasing members in media restraint . In spring seats ST ST ST are shown mounted on the front plate bottom plate and rear plate respectively. Spring seat ST is shown depending from the actuator . Post P may be provided on seats ST ST. Post P is shown depending from bottom plate . Posts P P may be used to hold biasing members on their spring seats. In pinion gears PG PG are shown mounted on shafts SH SH on the front and rear plates respectively. The number and location of the stops spring seats posts and shafts are a matter of design choice and the locations shown in the figures are for the purpose of illustration and not limitation and similarly for the number and mounting of the pinion gears and the number and mounting of the biasing members.

For the disclosed embodiments of the media restraint front plate is shown having the recess into which the latching mechanism is mounted. As would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art the latching mechanism may be mounted to the rear plate or some components may be mounted to the front plate and others to the rear plate . The mounting arrangement for the latching mechanism is a matter of design choice and the configurations shown should not be taken as limiting. For media restraint the mounting of bottom plate front plate rear plate and top plate to one another is a matter of design choice and the configuration shown should not be viewed as limiting.

The foregoing description of several methods and an embodiment of the present disclosure have been presented for purposes of illustration. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the present disclosure to the precise steps and or forms disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above description. It is intended that the scope of the present disclosure be defined by the claims appended hereto.

