---

title: System and method of providing a buy option in a social media network
abstract: Disclosed herein are methods for providing a buy option to social networking communications. The method includes receiving a posting of text, an image or a video through Facebook, identifying data associated with the posting and determining whether the data identifies a product within a database of products for sale from the posting entity. When the determination indicates that there is no reference to the product in the product database, the method includes transmitting the posting through Facebook without a buy now button. When the determination indicates that the posting references the product, thus indicating a sale-related intent, the method includes transmitting the posting through Facebook with a buy option, receiving a purchase interaction associated with the buy option and processing a purchase of the product.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09430790&OS=09430790&RS=09430790
owner: Monticello Enterprises LLC
number: 09430790
owner_city: Huntingtown
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160209
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 853 579 filed 14 Sep. 2015 which is a continuation of U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 822 368 filed 10 Aug. 2015 which is a continuation of U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 672 876 filed Mar. 30 2015 which is a continuation in part of U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 230 864 filed 31 Mar. 2014 and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 972 843 filed 31 Mar. 2014 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 972 834 filed 31 Mar. 2014 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 972 848 filed 31 Mar. 2014 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 972 865 filed 31 Mar. 2014 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 972 879 filed 31 Mar. 2014 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 972 861 filed 31 Mar. 2014 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 972 878 filed 31 Mar. 2014 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 972 892 filed 31 Mar. 2014 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 972 890 filed 31 Mar. 2014 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 973 287 filed 1 Apr. 2014 then entire contents of each of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The present disclosure relates to an improved use of a generalized input field operated by an entity such as on a website social networking site or other user interface. A user can enter input data such as text or an image identifying a product. If a purchase buy intent is determined the system provides a buy option to viewers of the image or text. Upon interaction with the buy option the system processes a payment from the entity and coordinates with a merchant to deliver the item through an application programming interface.

The current use of input fields such as the search field on Google is simple. The user inputs text related to a search and hits enter or clicks on the search button. Then Google processes the search and returns a list of results. Consider however if the user then desires to search Amazon to purchase an item. The user then must enter the address www.Amazon.com into the URL field of the web browser and hit enter or click go or provide some similar input at which point the web browser contacts Amazon retrieves the page data and presents the Amazon web page user interface with a separate search field. The user then enters a search term in that input field and hits enter or clicks on the search button. This is the typical approach where each website has an input field for use in searching under the umbrella of that particular website.

Thus if a user transitions between doing a Google search and then making a purchase on Amazon or on eBay the user must navigate to multiple websites separately and use multiple separate input search fields to ultimately make a desired purchase or execute a desired search. The existing paradigm involves first going to a website and then inputting data into the search field of that website.

In some desktop versions of the Opera web browser for example a user can type into a search field an indicator of what type of search to do. For example the user can set shortcut codes for various search engines so that a search of g Olympics will result in a Google search on the word Olympics. Similarly a search of b Olympics results in a Bing search on the Olympics while a search of z Olympics results in a search of Amazon.com on the Olympics. However these require extra typing and thus can take longer and are also only limited to a single search source and still require the user to navigate through the search results at the requested site. Thus the user still must perform multiple additional steps to accomplish a desired goal.

Some versions of the Mozilla Firefox web browser provide a search field to the side of the URL field. The user can select from different search engines or websites for that search field such as changing the field to search Google Wikipedia Yahoo Bing or Amazon. However this is still cumbersome as the user must change the field manually between different sites if the user desires to switch search sources.

The same principles above apply to any non commerce website or site. For example when a user is on any site or application that is not a commerce application that user will have to change or manually navigate from the non commerce site to a commerce site to make a purchase. This is the case for all social media sites that are not designed to sell products but are designed to connect users in particular ways. Twitter Facebook Pinterest Instagram and other social networking sites are all like this. Their conventional ways of interacting do not enable a user to easily transition to making a purchase or selling a product. This of course is by design as they are not commerce sites. What is needed is an improved and simplified approach to enabling a transition from any non commerce site to a commerce experience.

The present disclosure focuses on applying the concept disclosed herein to social networking sites like Twitter Instagram Pinterest and Facebook. The basic concepts disclosed herein involve addressing an Internet centric problem if making purchases more efficient from sites that traditionally and conventionally do not provide the ability to buy items. Thus www.google www.twitter.com www.facebook.com www.pinterest.com and www.instagram.com plus their associated sites and mobile applications conventionally provide the ability to search or post pictures or tweet a text or an image without the ability to purchase anything within the site. In general the concepts provided herein enable a site to receive input according to its conventional process and then analyze the input to determine whether there is a purchase sale intent. The analysis includes evaluating the input text video image etc. depending on the application for a reference to a product database. If there is a match or a confirmation from the evaluation that the input has an associated product then the site processes the input with the addition of a buy option for that product. The site can process a payment within the site through stored payment information or means such as Apple Pay or PayPal or the site can transition the user to a merchant site for further processing. When the evaluation of the input does not reveal a link or reference to a product database the site processes the input in the conventional fashion. Thus the unconventional steps in terms of processing social networking input is to include where appropriate the additional processing of a payment and delivery of a product. The following continuation application focuses on the social networking aspect of this disclosure while the parent cases focused on the search field input aspect. Each different social networking site has different aspects as well. For example the processing from the standpoint of the site is one aspect while the processing from the standpoint of the merchant covers another aspect.

An example method includes presenting an input field on a user interface of a social networking site wherein the input field is associated with processing data for social networking within the social networking site. This would apply to a Twitter account or Facebook and so forth. Twitter enables users to send and read short 140 character or less messages called tweets. Usually users input data into an input field and the data text pictures and or video etc. is transmitted to followers of that user. The method can include receiving text based user input in the input field and determining whether the text based user input is associated with a product database of products for sale from a merchant using the text based user input to yield a determination. The method can further include determining based on the determination whether the text based user input indicates that there is a reference in the text based user input to the product database. The system can also alternately seek to determination whether the input indicates one of a first intent such as to just send a normal communication and a sale related intent such as to buy or sell a product or service. In other words the user may just be providing a normal tweet to the system which is distributed or transmitted in the normal fashion through the social networking site according to the first intent a normal tweet intent to share information with followers . A merchant or a separate service can provide code to a merchant s processing system to enable the interaction with Twitter and the reference to the product database which triggers the presentation and processing using the buy button. Twitter can also evaluate the image that is posted for a reference to a product database. Thus the image attached to a tweet could include metadata which is text that references a product database and triggers the use of the buy button processing within the site.

However when the determination indicates that there is a reference to the product database and thus the sale related intent the method includes transmitting the text based user input through the social networking site with a buy option associated with the text based user input. In this case for example the text input can provide a link to the product database or a service that indicates an intent to send an advertisement or to buy a product or to sell a product. If the intent is a sale or purchase related intent then in additional to just transmitting the tweet through the social network the system can coordinate and present a buy button associated with the text input. Thus a recipient of the tweet will not only see at least some text of the tweet but will see a buy button and the system can receive a purchase interaction associated with the buy option. The system would then process the purchase of in item associated with the tweet. Through an API as is noted herein the purchase can be processed and delivery can be managed by the merchant. This process will increase conversion of sales through social networking. Of course similar approaches can be used through any social networking site like Facebook and others. This approach addresses an Internet centric problem of how to improve sales of products via mobile devices and particularly through the use of social networking. People spend much time on social networks which are Internet centric and would like to be able to improve and speed up the ability to purchase products through these on line networks. As noted above the reference to a product database can also occur via an image or a video posted on Twitter.

The merchant side processing can enable buy options to be offered as part of tweets or social networking posts. A method includes establishing from a merchant communication between the merchant and a social networking site that processes and transmits short messages of 140 characters or less within the social networking site. Similarly the merchant could post images or video with metadata which can be evaluated within the site Twitter for the reference to a product database. The social networking site can present an input field on a user interface receive textual user input in the input field and determine whether the textual user input is associated with a product database of products for sale from the merchant using the text based user input to yield a determination. When the determination indicates that there is no reference in the textual user input to the product database the site transmits the textual user input through the social networking site in the normal fashion. When the determination indicates that the textual user input references the product database of products for sale and thus indicating a sale related intent the site transmits the textual user input through the social networking site with a buy option for an item associated with the textual user input. The merchant communicating with the social networking site through an API can receive an indication that a purchase interaction associated with the buy option was received and process a delivery of the item to a person who provided the purchase interaction or based on the purchase interaction.

In another aspect the method can include presenting an input field on a user interface of a social networking site wherein the input field is associated with processing and transmitting short messages of 140 characters or less within the social networking site receiving user input comprising at least user text in the input field and determining whether text based on the user input correlates to a product in a database of products for sale by a merchant to yield a correlation. When there is not a product that correlates to the text the method includes transmitting the user input through the social networking site. When there is a product that correlates to the text and thus indicating a sale related intent the method includes transmitting the user input through the social networking site with a buy option associated with the user input receiving a purchase interaction associated with the buy option and processing a purchase of an item based on the purchase interaction.

Of course similar approaches can be used through any social networking site like Facebook Instagram Pinterest and others. Facebook enables users to register create a user profile add friends and exchange messages and posts of text images videos and other applications. Users receive updates on birthdays anniversaries and can joint interest groups organized in any fashion. Instagram is primarily a mobile application for sharing photos and videos. Users can share them privately or publicly and can include some text in connection with the posting. Pinterest is an application that involves photo sharing and requires a registration. Users pin photos known as pins or videos through collections known as pinboards. People can brown the content of others in their feed. Users can save individual pins to one of their own boards using a pin it button. Pins can be organized by items of interest such as travel weddings sports etc. Once a photo is pinned users can also share it via Twitter and Facebook. Businesses can have virtual storefronts on Pinterest in which users can broad the company pinboard.

In each case the determining of whether a sale or purchase related intent is associated with a posting can involve analyzing the input often text but it does not necessarily require text for a reference to a product or service that can be purchased by recipients of the posting through the respective site. For example in the Pinterest case a posting is not text but is an image posted through the site. If the analysis does not yield any reference to such a product or a service found often in a database of products services then the respective site simply transmits or posts the sender data Tweet Facebook posting pictures on Instagram or Pinterest videos on Youtube etc. through the social networking site without any buy now option. In other word the determination that does not necessarily require a parameter to be set or a specific result stored in memory. For example if the tweet does not include a URL pointing to a product database and the system is analyzing the input for such data the absence of the reference to the product database can in and of itself be the determination that there will not be a buy now option presented through the social networking site for that posting.

In the Instagram or Pinterest approach where images are posted from a posting entity to a group of recipients the process can operate as follows. A method includes receiving a posting of an image through a social networking site wherein the social networking site receives and transmits posted images from a posting entity to receiving entities. A system can analyze the image for associated text based data. The text data can be metadata or other data that provides information about the image and can reference a product database for example an inventory database associated with an item in the image. The system determines whether the associated text based data identifies a product within a product database for sale from the posting entity to yield a determination. For example the system can determine that there is inventory for the item in the product database. When the determination indicates that there is no reference to the product in the product database the system transmits the image input through the social networking site without a buy now button. In this manner the posting of the image would proceed through the social networking site in the normal fashion. When the determination indicates that the image references the product in the product database and thus indicating a sale related intent the system transmits the image through the social networking site with a buy option associated with the image. When the system receives a purchase interaction associated with the buy option the system processing a purchase of an item based on the purchase interaction.

Another example method disclosed herein is provided which addresses the concern above regarding the internet centric problem in needing to navigate between search related sites and purchase related sites. An example method includes presenting an input field on a user interface of a first generalized search entity wherein the input field is associated with processing data using a generalized search engine that indexes and searches both merchant sites and non merchant sites. Google.com is an example of such a generalized search entity. The method includes receiving user input in the input field determining via a processor that the user input is associated with one of a search intent and a purchase intent to yield a determination. When the determination indicates the search intent then the system presents a search result comprising a non merchant site and receives a search interaction associated with the non merchant site. The system then transitions the user to the non merchant site.

When the determination indicates the purchase intent the system presents a purchase related search result comprising a buy option associated with the user input and receives a purchase interaction associated with the buy option. The system then manages a purchase of an item associated with the purchase interaction based on or by using payment information stored at the generalized search entity. Delivery of the item can be handled via a merchant site separate from the generalized search entity. Managing the purchase can using the payment information stored at the generalized search entity can mean providing that payment information to the merchant site or processing a payment and notifying the merchant site to handle delivery. The coordination between the generalized search engine or its application on a mobile device and the separate merchant site or merchant application on a mobile device can be accomplished through an application programming interface or communication interface which exchanges the necessary information to accomplish processing the purchase and delivering the item between the generalized search engine and the merchant.

The merchant sites and non merchant sites can be websites or applications on mobile devices. The method can further include processing a payment for the purchase of the item from the generalized search entity to the merchant site. In this manner the generalized search entity receives payment for an item and then pays the merchant. The generalized search entity and the merchant site can communicate via an application programming interface for managing the purchase and delivery of the item.

A system method and computer readable storage devices are disclose which unify access to multiple websites or other information sources such that the user only needs to visit one location and utilize one input search field to achieve a number of different potential results such as doing a search or purchasing a product. That one location can be a website a search bar in a web browser an application on a desktop laptop smartphone tablet or other mobile device etc. Rather than navigating to a website to perform a search in the context of that website a user can instead navigate to or open a generalized search field. The search field can provide access to a search engine that crawls and indexes other websites at a large scale such as the search engines provided by Google Yahoo or Bing . In one embodiment at a large scale can mean crawling and indexing at least 25 000 different domains. The search field can be applied to larger or smaller crawling domains. Thus the generalized search engine can provide a primary function of serving results in response to search queries while simultaneously provided a secondary function of identifying searches that may indicate a user s intent to make a purchase and providing quick and easy access for the user to act on that intent.

Via the generalized search field the system can implicitly or explicitly process and analyze the input from the user and the resulting context. The system can also analyze based on a corpus of existing context for the user such as recently viewed or opened web pages recent actions the user has performed on the computing device calendar information for the user location data recent purchases or other transactions social networking data including posts messages sent to friends birthdays of friends and so forth. The system can incorporate as a data source any information that can provide direct or indirect context for understanding or processing the input. For example previous search history or purchasing history can provide direct context while social media posts of friends of the user can provide indirect context.

Thus the user goes to the website second after the search is entered. This approach reduces the number of interactions starting when the user opens a browser or application to get to a webpage to make a purchase or a webpage of search results. In another aspect drop down or drop up menus provide a much more rich opportunity for processing options such as one click purchases or searching particular websites such as eBay using the text input as search data. These drop down or drop up menus can be based on the location of the search input box a search button or some other element in the user interface. In yet another aspect the generalized search field can still provide traditional search results from one or multiple search sources but can present in addition to the traditional search results one click actions that the user can use for example to make a purchase directly from the listing of search results.

Various embodiments of the disclosure are described in detail below. While specific implementations are described it should be understood that this is done for illustration purposes only. Other components and configurations may be used without parting from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. When specific method embodiment examples are discussed the various steps of the method embodiments can be implemented in different orders combinations or permutations including additional steps or excluding specific steps.

The present disclosure overcomes the above indicated deficiencies in current search implementations by providing a unified search field that enables a user to provide user input and achieve in very few steps one of a set of goals such as completing a purchase executing a search executing a program or interacting with an online service. The user can provide the user input as text or in any other suitable form including multimodal input gesture input voice input etc. When the disclosure refers to input text or text from the user it is understood that the input can be provided as text or via some other input modality. The system can process the user input using traditional options such as a web search but additionally the system can process the user input to identify present and or execute purchasing options or more focused searching options on other websites. The system can present these options in a tag cloud or drop down or drop up or drop sideways menus as the flexibility of the processing of the user input expands.

The basic concept according to a first embodiment is illustrated below. Assume that an example website www.one search.com includes a user interface with an input field or search field. The input field can be a text input field or can be a voice input field that utilizes speech recognition to populate the field with text from recognized speech for example. The field is not just a search field but is a more generic input field from which multiple functions can be performed based on a determined intent of the input provided by the user. The search field is different from other search fields in how the www.one search.com search field processes input. Usually a person goes to the webpage then searches or chooses a search website and then the search field is conditioned with a particular website context for searching. In this disclosure the search context is open when the user enters data into the generalized input field. There is no presumption or setting that it will be a Google search or an Amazon search. The resulting context will be dependent on an analysis of the input. The user interface can include a number of different search or processing buttons each of which can expand the types of processing to perform on the input text. Different types of the buttons can include a Google search button an Amazon search button an Amazon one click purchasing button and an Apple.com purchasing button. The system can establish and provide the various button types in advance. Alternatively a user can set up a collection of personalized buttons for tasks that the user desires or expects to perform with some regularity. The system can generate and present these buttons based on general search and activity trends of users current promotions advertisers paying for placement and so forth. In place of or in addition to buttons as the user types input into the field the system can present peeks into various webpages which can be destinations for the users whether it is a search result a purchase an auction or any other website destination. In this regard rather than go to the website first and then enter a search into a search field this disclosure focuses on entering data in a general input field and then going to the website or making the purchase and different ways of processing that more improved input.

It is presumed such as in the case of Amazon or an auction website that when the user navigates to one search.com that user information debit credit card information address information etc. is stored in a user profile and available as in the case of a registered user at Amazon.com. For example as part of a registration or enrollment process the user can establish an account with one search.com and authenticate or provide credentials to link the one search.com account with accounts at other websites. So as part of creating an account with one search.com the user can provide credentials for Google.com Amazon.com ebay.com newegg.com thinkgeek.com and cheaperthandirt.com. Alternatively the user can link the accounts without providing credentials. For example the user can authorize Amazon to share all or part of the user s information associated with his or her Amazon profile without providing the Amazon credentials to one search.com.

Then when the user performs searches at one search.com the system can use the existing linked accounts to generate one click actions or one function speech gesture multimodal input etc. actions. For example one search.com can perform a purchasing action when the user interacts with a presented buy option. The user can then manage linked accounts via a user portal or user management interface to link additional accounts update credentials remove linked accounts or manage which portions of the linked accounts are shared with one search.com. Some websites may not require a linked account but can still be incorporated into the one search.com search field. This can be accomplished by processing a payment for an item associated with that merchant via the one search.com registered account and enabling the merchant to handle the delivery. Some e commerce sites allow purchases with a guest account in which case a one search.com action can include navigating to the e commerce site adding a desired item to the cart providing sufficient information about the user such as payment information a delivery address etc. to complete the purchase. In another example some websites such as a search engine can be enhanced when linked to an account but do not require a linked account. In these situations the user can decide whether to link an existing account with the search engine for processing purchases or whether to use the search engine without a linked account.

The one search.com website can inspect and use browser cookies from other sites to glean user data glean search history or any other information stored in or made available via cookies. The system can for example use a session cookie to determine that a user has or had an active session with a particular website and can use information in the session cookie to construct a URL for a one click page to execute a purchase in response to user provided input. Alternatively the system can use the live session to negotiate the website add a desired item to a shopping cart populate payment and shipping information on behalf of the user and present to the user the final stage in the checkout process so the user can simply click once on a submit order button or hit enter in the one search.com unified input field to complete the purchase. In this way the number of steps from search to purchase or from search to performing some other action is drastically reduced. While many of the examples provided herein discuss making a purchase the principles disclosed herein can be applied to other non purchase transactions as well. For instance in much the same way that the system can navigate to a website populate a shopping cart with an item and fill in shipping and payment information on behalf of the user the system can also navigate to some other website for a result that requires a set of information to be provided. If the user enters the text Why did my credit score just drop in the input field the system can identify one of the major credit reporting bureaus a third party credit report aggregation service or a free credit report site. The system can automatically provide the necessary information on behalf of the user to get to the credit score information and present that page as a potential result or as an option in response to the user input. Many similar tasks on the World Wide Web require navigation from one page to the next to the next and input in response to various questions. The one search.com system can shorten or automate the input required from the user to navigate through these series of web pages to obtain a desired piece of information a desired action or a desired outcome.

The system can process the input according to the button clicked as though the user entered the text into an input directly at Amazon.com or Google.com and simply clicked search. If the user clicked a Google search then the system would return search results from Google but could similarly provide search results from Bing Yahoo or some other search engine. In one aspect the system can transfer the user to Google.com cause a search to be performed using the user s search input and present the results as though the user had initially done the search at Google.com. In another aspect the system can generate a URL at google.com as if the user had performed the search using the user s search input and open that URL at google.com for the user. If the user selects a one click purchase then the system processes a purchase and delivery of the item through Amazon.com as though the user had navigated via Amazon.com to the item and made the purchase. In other words the functionality of the enter button can be modified dynamically and several times based on an analysis of the user input. Based on a variety of factors the initial default might be a purchase context but then the user starts to enter data and the context may change to a web search and then finally when the user is done entering input the enter button may cause processing associated with mapping or back to a purchase context.

If the user selects an Amazon.com search then the system returns a view of the search results on Amazon.com for that phrase. In other words the user could be transferred to Amazon.com logged into their account or joined into an existing session for the account and presented with a screen which is the equivalent or essentially or functionally equivalent of the state as though the user had searched Amazon.com for iPhone 5S 32 GB silver. From that state the user could peruse the returned list of items and then perhaps choose an item at which point the user could one click purchase an iPhone. Transitioning a user deep into a separate site preprocessed to a certain state can be called a deep link. This is where you do not transfer them to the highest level of the site such as to www.amazon.com or www.merchant.com but rather you preprocess the transition so that the user is brought to a deeper portion of the site such as www.merchant.com products hats greenhat where they can more quickly be situated to make a purchase immediately or in very few clicks.

Indeed in one example the system can redirect the user to Amazon.com or navigate to Amazon.com on behalf of the user in the same manner as if the user had started at Amazon.com and entered the search terms. In this case the algorithm of one search.com would receive the search input receive the desired instruction from the user by clicking on the Amazon.com search button and transition the user to Amazon.com. User registration information or web browsing state information stored in a cookie or elsewhere or sent via XML can also be read or transferred such that the user is logged into their Amazon.com account in the transition. Data can be stored with one search.com or with a browser or app. The result of this process is that when the user opens a browser to start browsing the Internet the system enables the user to initiate any number of searches purchases or other actions via a single unified input field that requires fewer clicks or user input to get to search results or to make a purchase.

Another embodiment simplifies the process even further. Typically as described above a website such as Google or Amazon has a single purpose entry so that the user can click enter and the received meaning of that is to process the text in the input field as a Google web search or as an Amazon product search. In this second embodiment the search field has multiple possible ways of processing the text in the input field. An algorithm analyzes and processes the input to determine or predict the meaning or user intent of the text input. Via such an analysis the system determines what type of search or action the user wants. Thus if the user types Olympics into a search field at one search.com the system can determine via the algorithm that user is unlikely to want to search Amazon.com or eBay for Olympics because the Olympics is not something available for purchase. However if the user enters additional information such as Olympics windbreaker Sochi 2014 the system can revise the determination of intent because the additional information input by the user is now directed to a specific item or category. Thus the system can continuously evaluate or determine intent of the user based on the text or data provided. The system can reevaluate intent as each character or word is input for example. The system can anticipate intent and cache or pre load results or actions for a number of anticipated intent scenarios based on context information for the user and the data provided so far. Thus if the anticipated intent i.e. Google search versus an Amazon purchase versus an Amazon search turns out to be correct the system already has the components in place or the pages fetched to service that intent.

The system may utilize any type of data such as user profile data social media data historical data time of year holidays are coming summer time a friend or family member has a birthday in one week etc. to make this determination. In this example the system may determine when the user clicks on enter that the user intended a Google search for that input. For example if the user types Paul Revere American revolution the system can detect that the semantic content and the structure of the text is more closely aligned with an informational search instead of a product search and can route the search text through a search engine. In that case the primary results as though the user had entered a Google search are presented. The one search.com results screen could also provide alternates in case the user actually desired a Bing search or did want an Amazon.com search. If the user enters that information into a search field at one search.com the system can cause the browser to navigate to google.com upon the user pressing enter as if the user had searched at Google originally for the search string. Alternatively the system can load the corresponding Google search page in an iframe or other embedded mechanism in a webpage or as a new tab or window. The system can utilize any of a number of various transitions to present the Google search page to the user even though the user initiated the search at the one search.com page.

On the other hand if the user enters Revere tea kettle the system can analyze the input text to determine that the user likely desires to make a purchase. Thus when the user hits enter the system can route the search to Amazon or another suitable e commerce site or can immediately execute a one click purchase from Amazon based on the search. Upon determining that the user intent is a purchase the system can perform an analysis of or rely on a previously performed analysis of the user s purchasing habits or other purchase related information such as lowest price lowest price plus shipping availability shipping time or method user membership in a shopping club whether the user has an account with an online merchant and so forth. Based on this analysis the system can determine which retailers are above an intent threshold and provide the user with ways to easily access those retailers. The system can sort the retailers in an order of likelihood to be what the user desires and can restrict the list of retailers presented to the user. For example the list can be restricted based on a price spread available screen space to present options to the user or other factors.

In an example of these principles the user enters the text large supreme pizza into the one search.com input field. The system can analyze the user s browser history previous queries at one search.com user accounts at various pizza delivery places a location of the user and nearby pizza delivery places credit card transaction data of pizza purchases and so forth. Based on this information one search.com can before the user presses enter and or mid query determine that Dominos Papa Johns and Pizza Hut are nearby are open and that the user has made purchases with them in the past 6 months. Then the system can present a preview of each of these merchants so that the user can simply click once to place an order for a large supreme pizza. The one search.com system can display the logo of each pizza merchant with a summary of the order that would be placed and the associated cost if the user clicks on the logo. For example the system can display below the Dominos logo 16 large supreme pizza 16.24 delivered to 123 Fake Street Springfield Ohio. Delivery by 6 15 pm. Then the user can click on the Dominos logo to place the order or the user can interact with the one search.com page or Dominos webpage directly to modify various aspects of the order before placing the order. The one search.com system can dynamically update the previews as the user types additional information in the search field. The one search.com system can further provide an indication of a default action that will be executed if the user presses enter on the keyboard. In this way when the user is satisfied with the default result or only one result remains after the user inputs the text the user can simply press enter and the system can execute the action such as placing an order for pizza.

In another example the user enters the term iPhone 5S 32 GB silver into one search.com. The system can analyze the text to determine that this search is clearly directed to a product based on the specific amount of detail to identify one or a few items that could be purchased. Further if the search is executed on December 8 then the system can be especially tuned to be more sensitive to recognize purchase requests due to the gift giving atmosphere surrounding Christmas or other holidays. The algorithm can analyze previous searches for various iPhones to determine which based on running the algorithm would result in a threshold value being passed that there is a high likelihood that the user desires to purchase this product rather than just search for it. When the user hits enter the system processes that input as though the user was viewing the iPhone 5S 32 GB silver on Amazon.com with the option to make a one click purchase. Here by entering that data into the one search.com field and clicking enter the system can on behalf of the user implement the steps at Amazon.com as if the user had completed a purchase of the item. The system can perform these actions via HTTP requests as if the user had navigated to the website and entered the information herself or the system can communicate with the various web services via their established APIs. The system can notify the user that the order has been placed and provide any shipping or order details to the user. Alternatively the system can transition the user directly to an Amazon.com environment or present a user interface notifying them that the purchase is being processed by a website that processes via user profile data a purchase and delivery of the product as can be done at Amazon.com or by Apple.com etc.

In one embodiment the user can confirm the order before the system places the order on behalf of the user. In another embodiment the system places the order automatically for the user and the user can choose to accept the order by doing nothing or choose to reject or modify the order by providing some input such as clicking a button or opening an order page in a new tab or new window. In one example the system may have placed an order for a silver iPhone 5S but the user changes his or her mind and wants to order a gold iPhone 5S. The user can modify the order directly at one search.com or one search.com can redirect the user to Amazon.com to modify the order. Sellers can compete for the business of processing this input and the system could report on who bid for the lowest price. The system can provide the user with an out by cancelling the purchase within a certain amount of time. In a similar manner the system can detect that a user has just placed an order for an iPhone 5S and implement a cool down period during which the system will not automatically order an additional iPhone on behalf of the user without some additional or explicit approval from the user.

The system can cap or confirm orders that appear to be erroneous or unintentional. For example if a new user does not realize how the system works he or she may search for an iPhone 5S 32 GB silver multiple times and inadvertently order multiple telephones. The system can have a built in mechanism to detect such potentially unintentional purchase patterns and incorporate some heightened level of user approval or confirmation before proceeding to make purchases on behalf of the user when such patterns are detected. The user can establish security measures or purchase limits on the account so that a child or unauthorized person is unable to make purchases above a specific spending limit or so that purchases above a threshold require authentication via email or text message or some other mechanism. If the system detects an unauthorized purchase the system can temporarily stop or prevent purchase transactions altogether for the entire one search.com account or for specific log in locations.

Using the enter button and processing the input based on a predicted intent can result in ambiguities. When a user searches via Amazon.com for a product the user navigates to the right model with the desired size color carrier and so forth. Then when the user makes an Amazon.com one click purchase the user knows all of the data about the product before making the purchase. In the model disclosed herein the system can also deal with product ambiguity. Assume the user enters iPhone 5S 32 GB at one search.com and that the available colors are black silver and gold. The algorithm determines based on the input text that the user likely desires to make a purchase and processes the input text accordingly. The system can select the most popular color and fill in that unknown parameter accordingly. The system can select not only the most popular model based on popular size and color but the system can incorporate demographics data to determine the most popular model for people similar to the user. For example if the user enters iPhone 5 the system can select a yellow 16 GB iPhone 5C for a teenage girl or a black 64 GB iPhone 5S for her father. The system can further analyze past purchases of similar or related devices to determine likely user preferences for this purchase. If the user is already registered and via the browser application or website the system knows who is doing the search then user preferences history classification model based on previous searches across multiple websites etc. can be applied to analyze the one search input field. If the user has made electronics purchases in the past that are all silver the system can assume that the user is likely to want a silver iPhone 5S and populate the cart accordingly. Similarly if the user has consistently purchased the largest storage capacity model in previous purchases of mobile devices the system can automatically populate the cart with the iPhone 5S with the largest storage.

Returning to the above example the user clicks enter and the system presents a user interface screen that states You have purchased the black iPhone 5S 32 GB if you want silver instead hit enter. In other words the system can choose the most popular color and present an option to change a parameter such as the color via hitting enter again. This second hitting of enter cancels the previous order of the black iPhone and replaces it with a silver one or the system can simply update the purchase request. At that point of time in the process it is as though the user had been viewing a silver iPhone with the right features and hit the one click purchase button such that no other action needs to be taken to have it charged and delivered. The system can integrate with the merchant via an API to place a hold on a particular item such as the black iPhone 5S 32 GB while waiting for a period of time to allow the user to modify the order before committing or completing the purchase.

The process can be repeated as well. The system can present to the user You have now purchased the silver iPhone 5S 32 GB if you want the gold one hit enter. Hitting enter this time will cancel the order of the silver iPhone and replace it with the gold iPhone. If the user does nothing else at this stage the system commits the order for the gold iPhone and the merchant will execute the order so the user will receive the gold iPhone and the merchant will charge the user for the order in the normal fashion. Of course button clicks can be provided for the user to change the various parameters and change the order. The interface can say you have purchased the iPhone 5S 32 GB black to change any of these parameters click here. The system can present various options to change the storage size model carrier color shipping options etc. However if the user does nothing the system arranges for and places the order with the merchant on behalf of the user using the predicted parameters. As can be appreciated the process enables the user from the time a browser or an application is opened up to successfully make a purchase of the desired product in less interactions or fewer steps than was previously required.

In another embodiment the system can include an autocorrect or autocomplete feature with one click purchasing ability in the context of a single search or at Amazon.com one search.com or any other website where a purchaser has registered data such as credit card address etc. A website search field can include an autocomplete where when the user types in a search term the autocomplete feature can either automatically complete the concept that user may desire or present a list of suggested or recommended options based on the text input up to that point. The user can review the various autocomplete options and select one thus alleviating the need to continue typing out the rest of the query. In this embodiment the system receives a partial user input or full input via an input field and when analyzing the input for producing autocomplete options the system can include a one click purchasing option in the listing of autocomplete options. In other words if the user enters the text iPhone as the partial user input at that stage the system can identify and present iPhone 5S 16 GB as one of the autocomplete options. In that case this modified listing of the autocomplete features reduces the number of clicks and the amount of text from the user in order to purchase the item. In other words drop down or drop up features are not limited to the concept of seeking a standard autocomplete feature but rather blends autocomplete with purchasing options or other options such as jumps to other websites. Normally the user would choose one of the autocomplete options which would take the user to either an item or a listing of items then the user has to click again to narrow down to one particular item and then at that point the user is in position to one click purchase the item. However if the user clicks on the one click purchase variation in the autocomplete listing the system can place the order immediately.

The system can present various one click options via the input field listing. For example if at the stage of typing iPhone the most popular iPhone is the 5S with 32 GB and a silver color the system can place that option with a one click purchase option high or first on the list of autocomplete options for purchase. The next most popular model might be the 16 GB iPhone in black which the system can display next in the autocomplete listing. Competitors can also provide offers in the autocomplete listing for a one click purchase. A competitor can purchase the right to present an autocomplete one click purchase option that is related but does not include the searched for text. For example when a user is searching for iPhone the system can present an autocomplete entry to one click purchase a Samsung Galaxy S4. The system can further present promotional material in these autocomplete listings. However because space is limited the promotional material may be limited. One example of such a promotion is an autocomplete listing advertising Samsung Galaxy S4 20 off at Amazon.com. Companies can purchase advertising space under the autocomplete listing or can pay a premium to elevate their products in autocomplete listings for a specific keyword specific product brand and so forth. However the system can also use business intelligence or feedback from various merchants to include in the autocomplete options results based on what people searching for item X eventually end up purchasing even if the autocomplete option does not include the searched for text.

Similarly the system can track users behavior and can price certain users attention at a premium for advertisers. For example if the user has been researching smartphones daily for several weeks advertisers of flagship smartphones may pay a higher price premium to target an interested engaged buyer with advertising in the form of autocomplete options.

The system can provide a one click purchasing option right in a drop down list of autocomplete options. Additionally the autocomplete can include a listing that if selected by the user places the user in the context of one step prior to a one click purchase at the merchant site. In other words if a user enters iPhone 5S on a website like Amazon.com Amazon.com presents to the user a number of listings of items. The user has to click on one of those items to narrow the results down to a single item at which point the counting of clicks begins in the context of a one click purchase. While viewing that single item the user is then presented with a one click purchasing option. Such a context including the user s successful login with Amazon.com would be characterized as a pre one click web page where the user has navigated to a point where the item is identified and the context is such that the user can make a one click purchase. The problem is that getting to the pre one click page takes too many clicks and interactions.

Thus the autocomplete listing can provide a simple way for the user to jump immediately to the pre one click stage in the merchant s web site. The autocomplete listing can not only include a one click purchasing option at that stage but could also include an option to take the user to a pre one click purchasing page at which point typically there is more information about the item a larger picture reviews a rating product details and so forth such that the user can make a more informed purchasing decision. For well known products the user can make a one click decision to purchase directly from an autocomplete listing but for other products the user may want to verify that the product is suitable for an intended purpose or compatible with some other user needs. The previous result of clicking on an autocomplete option is to process that option as though it was a search entered into the input field. However that returns a listing of search results and not a pre one click page with one item ready to purchase. Accordingly this alternate feature reduces the number of interactions necessary to get to a pre one click purchase page.

The purchasing autocomplete type options could be presented on a drop up listing and the searching or traditional autocomplete options could be presented on a traditional drop down menu. In other words the directionality of the listing can be indicative of the functionality of the items listed. The directionality can be side to side or in some other direction or angle. For example the various one click purchase and pre one click autocomplete listings can all be drop down menus but at opposing 45 degree angles. The system can also present options in a tag field or tag cloud arrangement where most likely options are presented closest to the input field where they would be the quickest and easiest to access from a mouse perspective and with the largest icon text graphic or other visual cues for selection.

Because the user input in field is a product the example drop down menu options can include a standard Google search . Although this is the first option the system can arrange the drop down menus to place this option lower if the algorithm determines that the user is less likely to desire a Google search. The system can present more likely options closer to the input field or closer to the mouse cursor for example. If a user selects that option then the result that is returned would be as though the user had entered iPhone 5S as a Google search. The drop down menu can include an Amazon.com one click purchasing option . If the user selects this option the system can process the input as though the user were on Amazon.com having searched for an iPhone 5S and at a screen in which the user can select to one click execute the purchase of the product for the user. In another variation the system can present a one click option at the one search page directly from the drop down or drop up menu. So the user could click a button an image or a link to place the order with Amazon.com as if the user had navigated to the one click point at Amazon.com and clicked the order now button. In this case illustrates the resulting screen presented to the user from choosing option . Screen includes data informing the user that the iPhone 5S had been purchased via Amazon.com. When a color was not provided the system can chose the most likely color for the user or for similar users. In this case the system selected silver. A storage size of 32 GB is also shown as part of the purchase data.

In the case of unwanted or unintended purchases as people perhaps hit a wrong key or chose the wrong drop down menu option the system allows users to cancel the purchase or modify the purchase . The user can modify any number of different options depending on the product. Options shown by way of example include changing the color from silver to gold or black. Similarly the system can display an option to change the storage size to 16 GB. An option such as add accessories can bring the user to another interactive screen to choose accessories. The system can determine which modification options to present and the order in which to present them based on a confidence score for each option. For example the system may have a confidence score of 95 that the user wants a silver iPhone 5S and can either not display the option to modify the color or can display the option in a less prominent place or manner or can provide the option to change the color through a menu or other hidden location. This approach can allow the system to present purchase or item options to the user so that the user is only concerned with and can easily modify options about which the system is less sure. The system can present options to modify not only details about the actual item itself but also about details surrounding the order such as delivery address billing address payment method or delivery method. The system can even allow the user to switch the order from one merchant to another merchant if the user inadvertently clicked the wrong menu item in the pull down menu for example.

In that the entity which is processing the purchase is Amazon.com as is noted in field the system could also present an option to process the purchase through Apple.com. If any of these options are chosen then the user selects the modify button and the order is modified and automatically continues to be processed. Of course the system has the user profile purchasing credit debit PayPal etc. account address and any other information and can move seamlessly between purchasing processing entities with ease. When the user sets up a profile and account on the website all of these permissions and accessibility capability is established and approved. In this manner operations necessary between entities to complete a purchase can be divided as necessary. Thus an example of seamlessly moving operations between purchasing and processing entities can include the system handling a purchase and delivery transaction of an item by enabling a payment account registered with one entity such as Google to be used to pay for an item while the system coordinates with another processing entity such as a merchant or retail partner to handle filling the order.

Returning to feature represents an Apple search. If the user selects this option then the next field that is returned would be as though the user searched for iPhone 5S on Apple.com. The information presented by Apple on that product would be presented to the user. Optionally the system can prompt the user to provide or confirm credentials for logging in to Apple.com. In that the transition from one search.com to Apple.com occurred from one search.com the system can present an option in the new Apple.com web page to enable the user to return to one search.com for further searches. For example the system can provide a frame in the browser for returning to the one search.com search while presenting the Apple.com web site. The frame can allow the user to modify the original input text which can dynamically change aspects of the presented Apple.com web site presented in conjunction with the frame.

Feature in represents an eBay bid option. In this case if the user selects this option the system sends the user to eBay and presents a screen as shown in the example user interface of as though the user had gone to eBay.com and entered in iPhone 5S into the eBay search field . Feature represent a selectable returned item for an iPhone 5S 32 GB with a current bid at 199. Feature is an iPhone 5S 16 GB for 175 and feature represents an iPhone 5 16 GB at 150. All of these are examples of the kind of processing that can occur. As noted above a return to one search button can also be included in the screen for easy access back to the one search field. The system can transition to the indicated destination page such as the Apple.com eBay.com or Amazon.com purchase page for an iPhone 5S as an overlay such that returning to the one search field involves removing the overlay instead of a back navigation command to a previous page.

In some cases the system can determine that the data in the search field is not intended for a purchase. For example if the user enters the text South Dakota the system can identify that the user does not desire to make a purchase. The drop down menu in that case could simply list the traditional search options or could list options to one click purchase items related to South Dakota such as a South Dakota t shirt or a souvenir of Mount Rushmore.

The user can also add hints or shorthand instructions in the search field to guide purchase options presented in a one search.com field. For example the user can provide the text buy amaz iPhone 5S. These hints tell the algorithm that the user desires a purchase function and that the desired merchant is Amazon. Based on these types of hints the system can eliminate features and from the drop down menus shown in . In that case the user could just hit return and the most likely desired product will be automatically purchased and processed for shipment. Options to cancel or modify of course can be presented such as the cancel purchase button and modify purchase button shown in .

In one embodiment the unified input field is part of an application downloadable or installable on a smartphone tablet or other mobile computing device. The functionality could also apply to a unified search field on a website. The application can be customizable as can any website disclosed herein. The application includes a single input field that is generic to multiple different types of processing. For example the application can present an input field with a number of different options such as a Skype or telephone call. The field therefore can be used to input a search for a contact. The user could type in the field mom and then select the Skype video conference option or the FaceTime option. The system processes the input field according to the appropriate context by extending a video conferencing request or making a phone call. It is important to note that the unified field concept disclosed herein is not limited to the processing of the user input being related to web searches or purchases. Other functionality can be implemented from the unified field. Phone calls video conferencing triggering of any sensor on a smartphone taking a picture sending a text etc. Several examples if these features follow. In the unified field the user may input the text Mark S. are we getting together for lunch The user may then select the processing option of texting chatting in an online chat room or posting the comment on a social media website and so forth.

Having disclosed some basic system components and concepts the disclosure now turns to the exemplary method embodiment shown in . For the sake of clarity the method is described in terms of an exemplary system as shown in configured to practice the method. The steps outlined herein are exemplary and can be implemented in any combination thereof including combinations that exclude add or modify certain steps.

In another aspect a classifier can process the user input in the general unified search field. The classifier can be trained to determine the intent of the user and to select which websites or applications to provide in response to the input. Classification algorithms are often used in processing speech or phone calls. For example some classification features can process and classify calls in various call types like local international voicemail conference etc. In some cases as a user calls an interactive voice response system a classifier can be trained using previous calls to process the user input to conclude that the user wants to talk to accounting or pay a bill. For example the user might say in the call I want to pay a bill or I need help with my account. By classifying that input the system can route the call to the right person destination or entity.

Technologies that are used for classification include statistics data mining pattern recognition machine learning and in some cases neural computation and artificial intelligence. A general classification system approach involves receiving input pre processing the input segmenting and labeling the input extracting features from the input post processing and ultimately classifying the input to arrive at a decision. While these principles have been applied in many fields these technologies can be applied to a new classification domain. The new classification domain is the context or intent of a unified input field such as on a browser in which the user provides input and that input can be applied to many different websites applications or actions. Right now when a person goes to google.com the assumption is that the user wants to search the internet. When a user goes to Amazon.com the user wants to buy something. The user must go to different websites for these different functions requiring additional unnecessary mouse clicks. This disclosure provides in one respect the introduction of a classifier that processes user input in a field on a website where there is no assumption that the user wants to search or buy a product. The classifier will determine via a classification decision what the intent of the user is.

In order to train the classifier which is called herein an intent classifier the system can monitor the web usage of a user for a period of time. The classifier can utilize data of one user or multiple users. For example one could generate training data of input at a google input field compared to input in an amazon.com input field for people of a particular demographic such as 20 30 year old men or women or a particular minority or religious group. The training data preferably would be particular in some respects to the individual user. If a user is logged into a browser such that it can connect to that user s training data or relevant training data then the system can more efficiently process the user input in the unified input field. The system can use supervised learning or unsupervised or semi supervised learning to label the training set so that the training data can provide which class i.e. search purchase Wikipedia etc. the input belongs to. The training data involves the input provided via a search field as opposed to a purchase field. Other fields can apply as well such as auctions medical advice twitter input text Facebook input text or any other social networking input text and so forth. The general concept is that there is no assumption when the user inputs data into the field regarding what the desired function is.

Other data that can be useful for the training model is personal user information. For example if the user is registered for making one click purchases at amazon.com then when the user types in Android 4.4 KitKat the system will know that the shortest number of clicks and computer interactions possible for the person to complete a purchase of the most popular smartphone with Android 4.4 is through Amazon.com. Otherwise the user might be sent to another website and have to go through the shopping cart model enter their credit card and take a lot of extra time and effort to complete the purchase. Thus knowing that the user is registered at one or two purchasing websites thus enabling a quick one click purchase can drive the result of the classification.

In another example the classifier in this case can have classification types of search browse purchase now play game update software send email send tweet check Facebook make call via Skype and so forth. Some of the classification data for a trained model can be drawn from the different types of input that are used in input fields between google.com amazon.com Wikipedia.com and so forth. The system for training the classifier can look at the different types of input in connection with which website is being used and develops training data. In other cases if a user types in call mom such input would not be provided in an input field because normally the user would go to the Skype App or other calling app and choose his mother to make the call. Thus in other cases training may occur in a different way to capture that command type of input. However since there is no assumption of the desired intent of the input at the start such training can be used to enable the user to perform a host of functions starting at one input field.

The user can in this case also provide hints as to the desired input. It might be quicker for the user to type buy before iPhone 5S so that the entire input is buy iPhone 5S than moving one s hand to the mouse and moving the mouse to click on an amazon.com tab in a browser or on an icon or typing www.amazon.com in an input field for URL s. Clearly the suggestion to buy tells the classifier that a purchase is the intent. Currently typing in buy iPhone 5S is still considered via a searching algorithm in which search results are provided. The system can show sponsored advertisements which enable the user to go to an advertisement or promotional page for the iPhone 5S but those still take additional clicks to get to the point of actually being able to make a purchase. Further the system can still present the results on a webpage google.com that does not enable the user to complete a purchase delivery within one click.

Therefore the classification algorithm according to this disclosure can utilize training data which includes different kinds of input that the user or similar users have provided via input fields on various web pages to determine an intent describing which web page the user desires to open or which action the user desires to perform on the web page. The system can user other data to make the determination such as time of day time of the year social media data like birthdays of friends holidays weather information which websites the user had made purchases on and with which website the has previously registered etc.

For example the classifier might determine that the user wants to make a purchase. The classifier can make a basic determination of an intent to search or an intent to make a purchase. Then the classifier can take a secondary step to determine based on history user profile registrations best price closest outlet to the user s address etc. at which merchant the user likely wants to make the purchase. If the user has an account set up at amazon.com then the system may choose amazon as the primary likely destination and take the appropriate step. For example the system can create a new tab with the input term pre entered at amazon.com or where the user can open the tab and be at the state in the amazon.com website where the user can just click the one click purchase button to complete the purchase. The system can present the new page in a new tab within the same page as the unified input field or in some other fashion.

The system can instead of a more traditional menu present the options in a completely different form such as a tag field. illustrates options in which parameters associated with each selectable option are chosen based on relevance. For example the system can select and modify positioning size shape color detail of the items in the tag field for various options. Feature is an Amazon one click purchase. Feature is a Google search and feature is an eBay search. In a tag cloud or word cloud the size shape color and other details of the items can provide information about the items. In this example the Amazon one click purchase is listed in a large font in bold and in close proximity to the search field . The large font can indicate that the system has determined that it is highly relevant to the text entered in the search field. The bold font can indicate that clicking the item will trigger a purchase. The eBay search is similarly large potentially indicating that it is also highly relevant but not bold because there is no one click purchase associated with that item . The Google search is presented to the side in a smaller font indicating that is may be of lesser relevance or importance. The various details of these items can vary in a smooth animated fashion as the user enters additional information in the search field . For example as the user enters more information about the specific desired iPhone the system can adjust the Amazon option on the user interface to gradually increase in size move closer to the search field be drawn with thicker lines and so forth. The system can provide these details as an animation for the user so that increasingly relevant items are presented in increasingly discoverable places or increasingly prominently.

A description of a basic general purpose system or computing device in which can be employed to practice the concepts methods and techniques disclosed is illustrated. With reference to an exemplary system and or computing device includes a processing unit CPU or processor and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM to the processor . The system can include a cache of high speed memory connected directly with in close proximity to or integrated as part of the processor . The system copies data from the memory and or the storage device to the cache for quick access by the processor . In this way the cache provides a performance boost that avoids processor delays while waiting for data. These and other modules can control or be configured to control the processor to perform various operations or actions. Other system memory may be available for use as well. The memory can include multiple different types of memory with different performance characteristics. It can be appreciated that the disclosure may operate on a computing device with more than one processor or on a group or cluster of computing devices networked together to provide greater processing capability. The processor can include any general purpose processor and a hardware module or software module such as module module and module stored in storage device configured to control the processor as well as a special purpose processor where software instructions are incorporated into the processor. The processor may be a self contained computing system containing multiple cores or processors a bus memory controller cache etc. A multi core processor may be symmetric or asymmetric. The processor can include multiple processors such as a system having multiple physically separate processors in different sockets or a system having multiple processor cores on a single physical chip. Similarly the processor can include multiple distributed processors located in multiple separate computing devices but working together such as via a communications network. Multiple processors or processor cores can share resources such as memory or the cache or can operate using independent resources. The processor can include one or more of a state machine an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or a programmable gate array PGA including a field PGA.

The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. A basic input output BIOS stored in ROM or the like may provide the basic routine that helps to transfer information between elements within the computing device such as during start up. The computing device further includes storage devices or computer readable storage media such as a hard disk drive a magnetic disk drive an optical disk drive tape drive solid state drive RAM drive removable storage devices a redundant array of inexpensive disks RAID hybrid storage device or the like. The storage device can include software modules for controlling the processor . The system can include other hardware or software modules. The storage device is connected to the system bus by a drive interface. The drives and the associated computer readable storage devices provide nonvolatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing device . In one aspect a hardware module that performs a particular function includes the software component stored in a tangible computer readable storage device in connection with the necessary hardware components such as the processor bus display and so forth to carry out a particular function. In another aspect the system can use a processor and computer readable storage device to store instructions which when executed by the processor cause the processor to perform operations a method or other specific actions. The basic components and appropriate variations can be modified depending on the type of device such as whether the device is a small handheld computing device a desktop computer or a computer server. When the processor executes instructions to perform operations the processor can perform the operations directly and or facilitate direct or cooperate with another device or component to perform the operations.

Although the exemplary embodiment s described herein employs the hard disk other types of computer readable storage devices which can store data that are accessible by a computer such as magnetic cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks DVDs cartridges random access memories RAMs read only memory ROM a cable containing a bit stream and the like may also be used in the exemplary operating environment. Tangible computer readable storage media computer readable storage devices or computer readable memory devices expressly exclude media such as transitory waves energy carrier signals electromagnetic waves and signals per se.

To enable user interaction with the computing device an input device represents any number of input mechanisms such as a microphone for speech a touch sensitive screen for gesture or graphical input keyboard mouse motion input speech and so forth. An output device can also be one or more of a number of output mechanisms known to those of skill in the art. In some instances multimodal systems enable a user to provide multiple types of input to communicate with the computing device . The communications interface generally governs and manages the user input and system output. There is no restriction on operating on any particular hardware arrangement and therefore the basic hardware depicted may easily be substituted for improved hardware or firmware arrangements as they are developed.

For clarity of explanation the illustrative system embodiment is presented as including individual functional blocks including functional blocks labeled as a processor or processor . The functions these blocks represent may be provided through the use of either shared or dedicated hardware including but not limited to hardware capable of executing software and hardware such as a processor that is purpose built to operate as an equivalent to software executing on a general purpose processor. For example the functions of one or more processors presented in may be provided by a single shared processor or multiple processors. Use of the term processor should not be construed to refer exclusively to hardware capable of executing software. Illustrative embodiments may include microprocessor and or digital signal processor DSP hardware read only memory ROM for storing software performing the operations described below and random access memory RAM for storing results. Very large scale integration VLSI hardware embodiments as well as custom VLSI circuitry in combination with a general purpose DSP circuit may also be provided.

The logical operations of the various embodiments are implemented as 1 a sequence of computer implemented steps operations or procedures running on a programmable circuit within a general use computer 2 a sequence of computer implemented steps operations or procedures running on a specific use programmable circuit and or 3 interconnected machine modules or program engines within the programmable circuits. The system shown in can practice all or part of the recited methods can be a part of the recited systems and or can operate according to instructions in the recited tangible computer readable storage devices. Such logical operations can be implemented as modules configured to control the processor to perform particular functions according to the programming of the module. For example illustrates three modules Mod Mod and Mod which are modules configured to control the processor . These modules may be stored on the storage device and loaded into RAM or memory at runtime or may be stored in other computer readable memory locations.

One or more parts of the example computing device up to and including the entire computing device can be virtualized. For example a virtual processor can be a software object that executes according to a particular instruction set even when a physical processor of the same type as the virtual processor is unavailable. A virtualization layer or a virtual host can enable virtualized components of one or more different computing devices or device types by translating virtualized operations to actual operations. Ultimately however virtualized hardware of every type is implemented or executed by some underlying physical hardware. Thus a virtualization compute layer can operate on top of a physical compute layer. The virtualization compute layer can include one or more of a virtual machine an overlay network a hypervisor virtual switching and any other virtualization application.

The processor can include all types of processors disclosed herein including a virtual processor. However when referring to a virtual processor the processor includes the software components associated with executing the virtual processor in a virtualization layer and underlying hardware necessary to execute the virtualization layer. The system can include a physical or virtual processor that receive instructions stored in a computer readable storage device which cause the processor to perform certain operations. When referring to a virtual processor the system also includes the underlying physical hardware executing the virtual processor .

In each case within this disclosure reference to Amazon or Amazon.com is broad enough to encompass any purchasing delivery or ecommerce web site as well as websites for traditional brick and mortar businesses that provide goods or services. References to a Google site or search refer to any generalized search engine. In many instances the principles set forth herein may be applicable to other non search and non commerce sites which the system can manipulate or traverse in order to accomplish a specific intended action on behalf of the user.

A first option of the set of options can be associated with a search engine and a second option of the set of options is associated with a purchase processing engine. If the chosen option is the second option and associated with a purchase processing engine then the system will identify in item associated with the user input and process a purchase of the item and delivery of the item to the user. If the chosen option is the first option and associated with a search engine then the system processes the user input to perform a search associated with the user input and returns search results. The method can also include identifying respective types for the set of options and presenting the set of options in groups based on the respective types.

The user input can include at least one of text input multimodal input gesture input or voice input or any combination thereof. The user can have a pre existing account storing preferences governing how the set of options are presented.

In a touch based interface a user can use touch gestures to manipulate the tears. For example the user can tap and hold on a tear to begin moving the tear around on the page. The user can swipe to move the view of the page in the tear or pinch to zoom on a page displayed in the tear. A user can double tap on a tear to navigate to the page displayed in the tear. The system can display content in the tears at a same zoom factor as the host page or can shrink the content displayed in the tears to display a broader view of the content.

A system method and computer readable storage devices are disclosed which dynamically morph or adapt the search button associated with a unified input field based on an intent determined via a classifier and based on text provided to the unified input field. Typically a unified input field has two main components a text input field and a search button to execute a search based on input provided via the text input field. The search button is typically labeled with the text search or go or something similarly generic. However as the user enters a search term the system can identify some other more specific action and can modify the search button to not only display different a different text or graphical label but can also modify the action associated with the button accordingly. Additionally the system can expand the single search button into multiple buttons.

For example the user enters the text Apple. At that point the classifier does not determine that the text string Apple is sufficiently tied to a specific action or item to modify the label on the search button. So the search button remains unchanged. The user continues to enter the text Apple iPhone. At this point the classifier identifies based on the additional text that several specific items or actions are likely but too many of the items or actions are available or none are above a certainty threshold to modify the search button. The user continues on to enter the text Apple iPhone 5S at which point the classifier identifies a model of iPhone the 5S. Then based on user preferences or on other available data the classifier can identify a specific variant of the iPhone 5S such as a gold 64 GB iPhone 5S. Thus the system can modify the label of the search button to no longer say search but instead to say Purchase iPhone 5S 64 GB Gold. The user can at that point simply hit enter on the keyboard to execute that action and purchase the indicated iPhone 5S.

As an alternative to modifying the search button the system can generate and present additional buttons next to the search button. The system can provide an indication that different keys or key combinations will activate the different buttons. For example hitting enter will activate the functionality associated with the search button while hitting ctrl enter will activate the functionality of the Purchase iPhone 5S 64 GB Gold button. As the system presents additional buttons the user can also click on the additional buttons to activate their various associated actions.

In some cases the modified button can still require some additional disambiguation. For example the modified button can be labeled Purchase iPhone 5S 64 GB. As the user presses enter to activate the modified button the system can present an additional dialog or button modification such as modifying the button to say Press enter once for Gold twice for Silver or thrice for Black. After the user provides that input the system can modify the button label to say Press enter once to purchase from Apple twice to purchase from Amazon. The system can modify the button label with these additional messages or can present them at some other location on the page. In this way the user can quickly enter the text associated with a desired action or purchase and select the various options easily and without moving his or her hands back and forth between the keyboard and the mouse and can navigate between a disambiguation decision tree using very simple and familiar inputs.

If the user makes a mistake or wants to cancel the selection the user can simply hit backspace to delete characters in the entered text which would potentially change the context and trigger a reset of the modified button and corresponding action or actions. If the user made a mistake and wants to back out of the selection he or she can simply hit the escape key or provide some keyboard mouse or other input indicating to the system to go back.

The system can learn the behavior patterns and preferences of the user and adapt accordingly so that over time the system can require less and less input from the user to accurately determine or classify the user s intent. For example the system can know which items the user has already purchased which items the user has discussed with friends or family which gift giving events are coming up soon and so forth. Based on all these data points the classifier can make more accurate guesses regarding the user s possible or likely intent.

In a mobile device which does not have a mouse and a keyboard but instead is typically equipped with a touch sensitive screen or a stylus the approaches set forth above may be modified. For example instead of modifying a button in a traditional desktop style search field and search button pair a mobile variation of the system can provide a search field for the user to enter text via an on screen virtual keyboard voice input or some other input approach. As the user inputs text the system can present a list of one click actions in a drop down manner from the search field. While some of the one click actions may be implementing a search in the traditional manner other one click actions may include navigating to a specific stage in a website such as the stage in Amazon.com where the user is already logged in and simply has to execute the one click to purchase or placing a bid on eBay or at the final check out phase of an online merchant s shopping cart with a desired item already added to the shopping cart. The user can dismiss one click actions in the list by swiping them off the screen.

The system can analyze the input from the user into the input field to determine whether the user desires to perform a search or to make a purchase to yield a determination . If the determination indicates that the user desires to make a purchase then the system can set the button in the second mode and present data about an item that will be purchased and delivered according to a registered account of the user without further input from the user other than pressing the enter key . The system can manage the entire process of buying and delivering an item by processing a payment for the item from the registered account associated with the input field entity and coordinating the delivery of the item through a business partner merchant. The item can be a product or a service. The system can select the item that will be purchased and delivered based on a probability that the item is a most likely item that the user desires to purchase based on the input. For example a classifier can determine the probabilities and the items based on a user history of purchases a user history of searches a time of day a time of year social media data information about holidays user profile data and or user account balance information.

A further interface can include which various buttons are presented for clicking on by the user. Buttons can show different options for the user to make the purchase via one click. If there is still a likelihood that the user may simply want to search then the search button can also be made available. One of these can be highlighted in some way to identify that if the user hits enter on the keyboard that the particular highlighted button will be the one that will process the input as a purchase or a search. In this manner the user can enter the input data first and then perform the function rather than first navigating to a website like Google or Amazon.com and then entering the user input data. Another interface allows the user to give a direct hint by typing purchase iPhone 5S 64 GB Gold. In this case the system could then present options for the user to purchase it through Apple with shipping information or Amazon with its price and shipping information or through a carrier for in store pickup. The system negotiates the necessary purchasing information credit card debit card delivery address etc. with the various websites so that it is presented to the user as a one click purchase in the interface. This currently is not available to users and they must navigate to the separate website like Amazon.com where they have such information registered.

In another example of how the search button can be morphed in some browsers the input field at the top can be used to either enter a URL or enter a google search. When you start with a search there is a tag to the right of your typing that indicates what is going on. For example like this dentists Dunkirk Maryland google search. The google search language is not what the user types but is an indication that the browser is treating the text as a google search. This text of course can also be morphed such that as the text being typed is analyzed the indication to the user of what will happen when enter is hit can change. For example the user may start typing as see the following apple google search. However as the user continues to type it may change as follows apple iPhone 5s Amazon search. As the user continued to type and disambiguate it could result in the following apple iPhone 5s 64 GB silver Amazon one click purchase. At this point the user can hit enter and the system coordinates the information necessary to identify the product purchase account information which can be with one entity and delivery information such that the desired product can be purchased and delivered to the user. Delivery can be managed by a second merchant entity from one entity that handles the payment processing.

A system method and computer readable storage devices are disclosed which replace a URL based on intent determined by a classifier that processes input provided to the unified input field. In a typical web search a user clicks to select a search field enters text waits for the results page to load clicks a desired link in the results page and finally arrives at the desired link after waiting for it to load. This process requires many steps. A unified input field can simplify this process.

For example one search.com can provide a unified input field. The user provides input via the unified input field such as a search for iPhone 5S. The system can identify based on a user profile and on the entered text a most likely desired page such as a top ranked page in a listing of search results. The system can modify the search button associated with the unified input field to indicate that pressing enter or clicking the button would transition the user to that top ranked page from the search results without the intermediate steps outlined above. However if the user enters additional information such as iPhone 5S 32 GB Silver then the classifier can determine based on the text and in conjunction with a user profile or search history that the user s intent is to purchase the indicated iPhone. In this situation the system can modify the search button to link directly to an Amazon.com or Apple.com page as if the user had already navigated there selected the iPhone 5S 32 GB silver added the iPhone to the cart and was at an advanced stage or potentially the final stage in the check out process. In the case of Amazon.com the system could modify the button to transition to user to a page ready for the user to make a one click purchase of the indicated iPhone. Alternatively the system can modify the button to also include the action of clicking the one click purchase button so that the user can go to one search.com enter the text in the unified input field and hit enter to purchase through Amazon. In this case hitting enter after entering the text in the unified input field could lead to a purchase summary of the just executed order potentially allowing the user to modify shipping options product options billing information or other order details. In another variation the system can place the order automatically based on the user hitting enter in the unified input field and transition the user to a webpage for purchasing accessories service related to the item purchased technical support pages or some other related web resource.

Thus the system can immediately transition the user from a one search.com unified input field to a one click purchase page on Amazon for example when the user hits enter in the unified input field. The system could also include the purchase in the transition action so that the purchase is completed based on the user pressing enter in the unified input field. In this regard one search.com would handle the purchase but then coordinate with the second entity such as Amazon.com or a merchant to complete the delivery of the item.

The system can present different options or different destinations based on user input. For example the system can present a message or indication that pressing enter by itself would transition the user to a one click purchase page for the desired item on Amazon.com while pressing alt enter would automatically make the purchase on Amazon.com. The system can present a message to the user stating that pressing shift enter would transition the user to a pre populated shopping cart page on Apple.com ready for the user to click submit order. Multiple different keys and or key combinations can trigger different behaviors based on the input in the unified input field. Further the various actions and key combinations triggering those actions can change as the user enters additional text in the unified input field or modifies text in the unified input field.

The user can establish preferences with the system such as indicating that all purchases default to Amazon.com unless the price difference is greater than 20 at a different retailer with which the user has an existing account or a price difference greater than 30 at a different retailer with which the user does not have an existing account. In this way the system can act intelligently based on rules or policies that the user establishes.

The system can transition immediately to the new URL as if the user had clicked and navigated through a series of pages in a shopping cart loading each page in turn and entering data automatically on the browser side or the system can communicate with the target website directly to accomplish the various sub tasks associated with selecting an item adding that item to a cart entering or selecting shipping and payment information and so forth leading up to the final stage where the user simply clicks submit order. One example of such sub tasks is that the one search entity can process payment information and coordinate delivery data to the merchant who will deliver the item. The system can pre perform all of these steps prior to presenting the page to the user after the user hits enter in the unified input field.

If the determination indicates that the user desires to make a purchase and without any other input from the user other than the input the system can automatically transition the user interface to a second website in which a second user interface has a second input field . The system can prepopulate the second input field associated with the second website with the input . The system can preprocess the second website using the input in the second input field such that the user is in a state after the automatic transitioning where a product associated with the input can be processed for purchase and delivery via a one click action from the user . The system can for example transmit user data from one of the first web site and a browser to the second web site or automatically navigate through a shopping cart model of the second website to yield the state where the product can be processed for purchase and delivery via the one click action. The system can automatically transition the user interface to the second website by replacing the first website in the uniform resource locator field of a browser with the second website in the uniform resource locator field of the browser. The system can further prepare a third website having a third input field preprocessed using the input wherein the user can provide a switching input to indicate that the third website should be presented rather than the second website. In another example the first site can process a payment for the item and coordinate with the second site to provide the necessary information for delivery of the item.

An example method of applying the use of the API is as follows. A method includes presenting an input field on a user interface wherein the input field is associated with processing data using a generalized search engine that indexes and searches both merchant websites and non merchant websites receiving input from a user in the input field to yield user input and receiving an interaction associated with the user input indicating that the generalized search engine should process the user input. When the user input is determined to indicate a search intent the method includes presenting a search result comprising a non merchant website and receiving a search interaction associated with the non merchant website and transitioning the user to the non merchant website. When the user input is determined to indicate a purchase intent the method includes receiving via an application programming interface data associated with item from a merchant site the item being selected based on the user input presenting a purchase related search result comprising a buy now option associated with the item receiving a user interaction associated with the buy now option and based on the user interaction processing a payment for the item via stored payment information for the user at the generalized search engine to yield purchasing data. The method can then include communicating the purchasing data via the application programming interface to the merchant site whereby the merchant site can manage delivery of the item to the user.

From the merchant side the process is as follows A method includes establishing from a merchant site communication between the merchant site and a generalized search entity via a communication interface or an application programming interface. The generalized search entity operates to present an input field on user interface wherein the input field is associated with processing data using a generalized search engine that indexes and searches both merchant sites and non merchant sites. The generalized search entity receives user input in the input field. When the user input indicates a search intent the generalized search entity presents a search result comprising a non merchant site receives a search interaction associated with the non merchant site and transitions the user to the non merchant site. When the user input indicates a purchase intent the generalized search entity presents a purchase related search result including a buy option associated with the user input the search result including an item offered from the merchant site. The generalized search entity receives a purchase interaction associated with the buy option. THe merchant side of the process is as follows. When the user input indicates the purchase intent the method includes receiving via the communication interface and at the merchant site payment information from the generalized search entity the payment information associated with the purchase interaction for the item and processing deliver of the item via the merchant site. In this manner the merchant site or application can communicate and receive communications via the application programming interface or communication interface to achieve the presentation and a sale of one of its items.

It is also noted that while illustrates websites communicating via an API that the API could also enable communication between two applications on a device or could cause communication between a website and an application on a device. The API is meant to be the means of two different entities each of which have different purposes or means of interfacing with users such that coordination between the two entities can be facilitated.

Another aspect of this example is how the concepts apply to social networking applications such as Twitter mentioned above. Twitter is a social networking application or service in which users can send and read short messages usually equal to or less than 140 characters. Registered users can post tweets which are transmitted through the network to followers. Users can post images and videos as well. Unregistered users can read tweets. Users access the service through a website a mobile device application or through some other application. An example of the concepts disclosed herein applying to a social network like Twitter are as follows. A method can include presenting an input field on a user interface of a social networking site wherein the input field is associated with processing data for social networking within the social networking site. The social networking site in the case of Twitter can transmit short 140 character or less text based messages from senders to followers. Images or videos can also be transmitted through this site with metadata pointing to or referencing a product. In the case of an image or video metadata can be associated with the image or video that references the product database and triggers the processing and presentation of a buy option. This would apply to a Twitter account Facebook Instagram Pinterest and so forth. The general approach in these examples is described below in and its associated discussion.

Usually users input data into an input field and the data text pictures and or video etc. is transmitted to followers of that user. The method can include presenting an input field or mechanism through a social networking site and receiving text based user input in the input field and determining whether the text based user input is associated with a product database of products for sale from a merchant using the text based user input to yield a first determination. This can be done through a link or analysis of the user input. In this regard for example a twitter user can input text into a tweet and the system will analyze that text to determine whether the input references a product database and thus can be associated with a sale advertisement purchase or other intent. If the user input does not reference a product database then the system can determine that the user input is not sale related but merely to be transmitted through the social networking system. In other words the user may just be providing a normal tweet to the system which is distributed or transmitted in the normal fashion through the social networking site according to a first intent a normal tweet intent to share information with followers .

However when the determination indicates that the user has referenced a particular product database and thus the sale related intent the method includes transmitting the text based user input through the social networking site with a buy option associated with the text based user input. In this case for example the text input can provide a link to the product database or a service that indicates an intent to send an advertisement or to buy a product or to sell a product. If the intent is a sale or purchase related intent then in additional to just transmitting the tweet through the social network the system can coordinate and present a buy button associated with the text input. Much like the Google example disclosed herein the social networking site or a service associated with the social networking site can store user payment processing information thus only requiring a user to input such information once. Thus a recipient of the tweet will not only see at least some text of the tweet but will see a buy button and the system can receive a purchase interaction associated with the buy option. The system would then process the purchase of in item associated with the tweet. Through an API as is noted herein the purchase can be processed by the social networking site and delivery can be managed by the merchant as coordinate through the API. This process will increase conversion of sales through social networking. In each case where text based input is mentioned herein an alternate approach can be to receive an image or a video with metadata which provides the information necessary to access the product database and the processing continues in a similar manner. Of course similar approaches can be used through any social networking site like Facebook and others.

Another aspect is handling buy options through a social networking site from the standpoint of the merchant who is selling products. In this aspect a method can include establishing from a merchant communication between the merchant and a social networking site that processes and transmits short messages of 140 characters or less within the social networking site. An API can be established through which such communication can occur. The social networking site presents an input field on a user interface receives textual user input in the input field and determines whether the textual user input is associated with a product database of products for sale from the merchant using the text based user input to yield a determination. For example a URL can be placed within a tweet that access a database of products and the merchant can have products offered through that database.

When the determination indicates that there is no reference in the textual user input to the product database the social networking site transmits the textual user input through the social networking site in the normal fashion such as sending the tweet or posting the Facebook post. When the determination indicates that the textual user input references the product database of products for sale and thus indicating a sale related intent the site transmits the textual user input through the social networking site with a buy option for an item associated with the textual user input. Thus those reading or receiving a tweet or a posting will see a buy option associated with that item. Recipients can have their payment information stored through the social networking site or another service like Apple Pay or Paypal such that products from all different merchants that are offered through this service can be purchased without needing to be transferred to that merchant for inputting payment information etc. The merchant then receives an indication that a purchase interaction associated with the buy option was received i.e. a recipient clicked on the buy button and processes a delivery of the item to a person who provided the purchase interaction or processing the delivery based on the purchase interaction. The social networking site can then make a payment to the merchant for the item. The social networking site or its agent may also charge a small fee for processing the sale. Determining whether the textual user input is associated with the product database of products for sale from the merchant using the textual user input comprises communicating or correlating between the social networking site and the product database via an application programming interface. Processing delivery of the item can include receiving information from the social networking site that payment for the item is complete and receiving information that the merchant selling the item through an application programming interface is to ship the item to the person.

An example of the Twitter embodiment relates to the processing from the merchant standpoint. In this case the merchant posts a short message of 140 characters or less within an input field on a user interface of a social networking site. The social networking site receives text based user input in the input field and determines whether the text based user input is associated with a product database of products for sale from a merchant using the text based user input to yield a determination. When the determination indicates that there is no reference to the product database the social networking site transmits the text based user input through the social networking site. When the determination indicates that the text based user input references the product database of products for sale and thus indicating a sale related intent the social networking site transmits the text based user input through the social networking site with a buy option associated with the text based user input receives a purchase interaction associated with the buy option and processes a purchase of an item based on the purchase interaction. The merchant then receives at the posting entity purchase data indicating that the item has been purchased. Thus the merchant through an API will receive notice that a recipient has made a purchase of the item and that the merchant should ship the item.

In another aspect the method can include presenting an input field on a user interface of a social networking site wherein the input field is associated with processing and transmitting short messages of 140 characters or less within the social networking site receiving user input comprising at least user text in the input field and determining whether text based on the user input correlates to a product in a database of products for sale by a merchant to yield a correlation. When there is not a product that correlates to the text the method includes transmitting the user input through the social networking site. When there is a product that correlates to the text and thus indicating a sale related intent the method includes transmitting the user input through the social networking site with a buy option associated with the user input receiving a purchase interaction associated with the buy option and processing a purchase of an item based on the purchase interaction.

Of course similar approaches can be used through any social networking site like Facebook Instagram Pinterest Youtube and others. In each case the determining of whether a sale or purchase related intent is associated with a posting can involve analyzing the input often text but it does not necessarily require text and can include an image like in Pinterest for a reference to a product or service that can be purchased by recipients of the posting through the respective site. If the analysis does not yield any reference to such a product or a service found often in a database of products services then the respective site simply transmits or posts the sender data Tweet Facebook posting pictures on Instagram Pinterest etc. through the social networking site without any buy now option. The site in that case processes the input in the conventional manner. In other word the determination that does not necessarily require a parameter to be set or a specific result stored in memory. For example if the tweet does not include a URL pointing to a product database and the system is analyzing the input for such data the absence of the reference to the product database can in and of itself be the determination that there will not be a buy now option presented through the social networking site for that posting. When the input includes a reference to a product database the site can implement unconventional processing in which a buy button is presented to recipients or viewers of whatever results the site presents by processing the user input. The site includes additional coding and processing to enable the user to either purchase an item while still in the site or easily transition to a merchant site at a deep link to enable quick and easy purchase of the product or to continue shopping at the merchant site. For example if a picture of a red hammer is presented with an associated buy button the site when the user clicks on the red hammer picture can be transitioned to a deep link with the merchant site as though the user had searched for a red hammer and was ready to make a purchase. Upon being transitioned to the deep link the user in this case can easily simply purchase the hammer or put it into a shopping cart and continue shopping or continue processing the purchase on the merchant site.

In a social networking case such as Instagram or Pinterest where images are posted from a posting entity to a group of recipients the process can operate as follows. A method includes receiving a posting of an image through a social networking site wherein the social networking site receives and transmits posted images from a posting entity to receiving entities. A system can analyze the image for associated text based data or metadata. The text data can be metadata or other data that provides information about the image and can reference a product database for example an inventory database associated with an item in the image. The system determines whether the associated text based data identifies a product within a product database for sale from the posting entity to yield a determination. For example the system can determine that there is inventory for the item in the product database. When the determination indicates that there is no reference to the product in the product database the system transmits the image input through the social networking site without a buy now button. In this manner the posting of the image would proceed through the social networking site in the normal conventional fashion. When the determination indicates that the image references the product in the product database and thus indicating a purchase or sale related intent the system transmits the image through the social networking site with a buy option associated with the image. When the system receives a purchase interaction associated with the buy option the system processing a purchase of an item based on the purchase interaction. This involves implementing additional code to provide an unconventional series of steps for a social networking site.

Determining whether the image is associated with the product in the product database from the posting entity can include communicating between the social networking site and the product database via an application programming interface. The social networking site can process the payment and communicate the sale to the posting entity such as a merchant. The merchant can then deliver the item. Processing delivery of the item comprises managing a payment for the item and informing the posting entity selling the item through an application programming interface to ship the item. A user or merchant can have a pre existing account storing preferences governing how the image and the buy option are presented. The buy option can include a one click purchasing option which because the social networking site stores the purchase data of the recipient who is making the purchase can occur without the need of moving or transitioning from the social networking site to a merchant site to complete the sale.

One embodiment also covers the above process for an image sharing site from the standpoint of the merchant who can post images on the social networking site that operates as described above. In this case the merchant posts the images with the text data that points to or accesses a product database such that upon confirmation of a product in the product database for sale the social networking site presents the image with the buy button and upon confirming a purchase informs the merchant of the purchase so that the merchant can process delivery.

With respect to processing from the merchant side for a buy option in a social networking site the method can include posting by a posting entity such as the merchant of an image text or a video through a social networking site in which users share images text or videos. The social networking site is typically structured to receive and transmit posted images text or videos from the posting entity to receiving entities. The social networking site determines using text data or metadata associated with the image or the video whether there is a product within a product database for sale from the posting entity to yield a determination. The social networking site can determine whether the image or the video is associated with the product in the product database from the posting entity via an application programming interface between the social networking site and the product database.

When the determination indicates that there is no reference to the product in the product database the site transmits the image or the video through the social networking site to the receiving entities without an option to buy a product but performs in the conventional manner. When the determination indicates that the image or the video references the product in the product database and thus indicating a sale related intent the site transmits the image or the video through the social networking site with a buy option and receives data that a user of the social networking site interacted the buy option to yield a purchase interaction. The merchant posting entity then processes a delivery of an item based on the purchase interaction. The social networking site can process a payment for the item through its own mechanism or can use a service like Apple Pay and the like. The posting entity can receive from the social networking site payment data after the social networking site processes the payment for the item. When the user of the social networking site interacts with the purchase interaction the merchant can receive a transition of the user of the social networking site from the social networking site at a deep link on a site of the posting entity. This is an optional approach in which the payment processing can occur outside of the social media site and by the merchant. The social networking site can transition the user to a deep link within the site of the posting entity in a state in the site of the posting entity in which the user of the social networking site can purchase the item. In this case the posting entity can receive a payment of the item from the user of the social networking site.

For example from the merchant standpoint the method can include posting from a posting entity such as the merchant an image text or a video on a social networking site. The social networking site can receive and transmit posted items from a posting entity to receiving entities wherein the posted items comprise at least one of text images and videos. The social networking site analyzes the image text or the video for associated text based data or metadata and determines whether the associated text based data or metadata identifies a product within a product database for sale from the posting entity to yield a determination. When the determination indicates that there is no reference to the product in the product database the social networking site transmits the image text or the video through the social networking site without an option to buy in other words in the conventional fashion. When the determination indicates that the image text or the video references the product in the product database and thus indicating a sale related intent the social networking site transmits the image text or the video through the social networking site with a buy option associated with the image or the video and receives a purchase interaction from a buyer associated with the buy option. Once the social networking site receives this interaction there is a necessity of completing the sale of the product. From the merchant standpoint the merchant then receives a transition of the buyer from the social networking site to a deep link in the site operated by the posting entity. The merchant processes the purchase and delivery of the item from the posting entity. In one aspect the merchant presents to the user after the transition a deep link within the site of the posting entity in a state in the site of the posting entity in which the user of the social networking site can purchase the item. The item presented in the image text or video posted on the social networking site can be the same item purchased. In one aspect the determining of whether the associated text based data identifies the product within a product database for sale from the posting entity to yield a determination is performed via an application programming interface between the social networking site and the product database.

In another aspect the method includes receiving a posting of an image or a video through a social networking site comprising Facebook identifying data associated with the image or the video and determining whether the data identifies a product within a database of products for sale from the posting entity to yield a determination. When the determination indicates that there is no reference to the product in the product database the method includes transmitting the image or the video through the social networking site without a buy now button. When the determination indicates that the image or the video references the product in the database of products and thus indicating a sale related intent the method includes transmitting the image or the video through the social networking site with a buy option associated with the image or the video to buy the product receiving a purchase interaction associated with the buy option and processing a purchase of the product based on the purchase interaction wherein processing the purchase occurs within Facebook.

Facebook Twitter and any other social networking site can process user input including text plus optional other input such as a video an image or other user input in connecting with a posting. The combination of user input can depend on the structure of a particular non commerce site. For example Twitter s user input differs from Facebook s user input. Both involve posts that can include text alone or text plus other user input. The respective social networking site will process user input according to its functioning. An image plus some description or metadata describing a location or a product in a product database can be input. The user input in this case can include any combination of user input according to a non commerce site that includes a reference to a product in a product database that indicates that the posting on social media should include a buy button when the post is processed through the social networking site. The posting can be prepared and posted by an individual user or an automated system depending on the processing of the non commercial site.

A system method and computer readable storage devices are disclosed which prepopulate tabs based on intent determined by a classifier that processes input provided to the unified input field. In a typical web search a user clicks to select a search field enters text waits for the results page to load clicks a desired link in the results page and finally arrives at the desired link after waiting for it to load. This process requires many steps. A unified input field that prepopulates tabs in the browser can simplify this process.

For example one search.com can provide a unified input field. The user provides input via the unified input field such as a search for iPhone 5S. The system can identify based on a user profile and on the entered text the n most likely desired pages such as from a listing of search results if the user were to execute a search using the text entered to that point. The system can then instruct the user s browser to create and populate new tabs in the browser with the n most likely desired pages. The value for n may vary based on user preferences already open tabs how many pages exceed a confidence threshold available memory network bandwidth which pages are ready to be loaded diversity within the pages to be populated in the tabs and so forth. In one variation the system can automatically create and populate three new tabs in the browser each with a different likely desired result in response to the input provided via the unified input field. One tab can be an Amazon one click purchase page one tab can be the final page of a populated shopping cart at Apple.com and one tab can be the final page of a service contract for purchasing the iPhone 5S with a 2 year service contract through AT T. In this way the user can automatically select browse and compare the tabs to determine which one he or she desires. At this stage however the input data does not necessarily provide sufficient information to lead to a specific purchase. Thus the system can select pages like an Apple information page about the iPhone 5S a Wikipedia page about the iPhone 5S or a popular video review of the iPhone 5S.

However if the user enters additional information such as iPhone 5S 32 GB Silver then the classifier can determine based on the text and in conjunction with a user profile or search history that the user s intent is to purchase the indicated iPhone. In this situation the system can load purchase specific tabs in the browser. For example the system can load tabs directly to an Amazon.com or Apple.com page as if the user had already navigated there selected the iPhone 5S 32 GB silver added the iPhone to the cart and was at an advanced stage or potentially the final stage in the check out process. In the case of Amazon.com the system could load a tab that is ready for the user to make a one click purchase of the indicated iPhone. Alternatively the system can load a tab that automatically performs the actions of clicking the one click purchase button so that the user can go to one search.com enter the text in the unified input field and hit enter to purchase through Amazon and the resulting purchase page is loaded in a new tab automatically for the user. In this case hitting enter after entering the text in the unified input field could cause a new tab to be loaded with a purchase summary of the just executed order potentially allowing the user to modify shipping options product options billing information or other order details. In another variation the system can place the order automatically based on the user hitting enter in the unified input field and transition the user to a new tab of a webpage for purchasing accessories service related to the item purchased technical support pages or some other related web resource.

When the user enters a first partial input string in the unified input field the user may click back and forth between one or more tabs to preview the results. Then the user can go back to the tab with the unified input field and modify or add to the input string. The system can remove the previously generated tabs and populate new ones or the system can keep the tabs that the user has opened looked at manipulated or clicked on for example while eliminating the other previously generated tabs. In this way the user can select which tabs to keep and which tabs the system is free to remove or replace based on the updated input string.

The system can predictively retrieve and cache potential matching pages for inserting into new tabs based on what the user is typing. For example if the user is typing Apple in the unified search field the system can retrieve pages of the three most popular Apple products or the three Apple products in which the user is most likely to be interested. Then as the user types Apple iP the system can narrow the search to products that match the partial string such as Apple iPods iPhones and iPads. Items such as the MacBook Air or the Apple TV would not be included as they do not match the partial input string in the unified input field. The process can continue refining the cached pages thereby saving time so the pages are ready to present to the user when a certain event occurs or a threshold is met. For example in one variation the system can wait for the user to press enter in the unified input field to populate the new tabs even though the system is preparing retrieving and caching pages in advance of the user pressing enter. In this way when the user presses enter in the unified search field the system can very quickly create new tabs and populate the new tabs with the retrieved pages. If any additional pages have not been predicted or retrieved tabs for those pages can load normally while others are ready for the user to view.

In one variation the system can immediately transition the user from the tab displaying the unified input field to a different tab that is created in response to input provided via the unified input field. While most browsers allow the user to a mouse to click on the tab or press a keyboard shortcut such as ctrl tab ctrl shift tab ctrl pgup or ctrl pgdn to navigate between tabs the unified input field can allow the user to press enter or some other key at the end of providing input via the unified input field to automatically switch to a newly created tab populated in response to the input. For example the system can switch to a tab of a one click purchase page on Amazon when the user hits enter in the unified input field. The system could also include the purchase in the transition action so that the purchase is completed at Amazon based on the user pressing enter in the unified input field as well as switching the user to that new tab.

The system can present different options or different destinations based on user input. For example the system can present a message or indication that pressing enter once would transition the user to a first new tab while pressing enter twice would automatically transition the user to a second new tab and pressing enter thrice would automatically transition the user to a third new tab and so forth. Multiple different keys and or key combinations provided via the unified input field can trigger different behaviors for managing or navigating tabs based on the input provided in the unified input field. Further the various actions and key combinations triggering those actions can change as the user enters additional text in the unified input field or modifies text in the unified input field.

The system can analyze the input from the user into the first input field to determine whether the user desires to perform a search or to make a purchase to yield a determination . If the determination indicates that the user desires to make a purchase and without any other input from the user other than the input the system can prepopulate a second input field associated with a second website with the input . The system can preprocess the second website using the input in the second input field such that the user is in a state after the automatic transitioning where a product associated with the input can be processed for purchase and delivery via a one click action from the user . The system can preprocess the second web site by transmitting user data from one of the first web site and a browser to the second website. The system can preprocess the second website by automatically navigating through a shopping cart model of the second website to yield the state where the product can be processed for purchase and delivery via the one click action. The processing can include that when the user interacts with the interface to make a purchase the entity associated with the input field processes a payment of an item and coordinates with a separate merchant for delivery.

The system can present the second website in a tab in the browser . The system can present a visual notification to the user associated with the tab that clicking on that tab will present to the user the second website in the state in which the user can process for purchase and delivery the product via the one click action. The visual notification can be a popup an indication on the first website a browser specific notification associated with the tab or in some other location in the user interface. The system can present multiple additional websites in additional tabs in the browser and can provide a mechanism via the unified input field to manipulate or navigate through those tabs independently of the established keyboard shortcuts and mouse clicks inherent in the browser. For example the system can preprocess a third website using the input in a third input field such that the user is in a state after the automatic transitioning where a product associated with the input can be processed for purchase and delivery via a one click action from the user and presenting the third website in a second tab in the browser.

The positioning of the tabs can be based on history personal preferences likelihood of intent and so forth. For example if the user typically purchases items through Amazon.com then that tab will be presented next to the current tab . The probability of a search intent over a purchasing intent may be equivalent and thus a Google or Yahoo Search may be presented in tabs next to a purchasing option. The tabs may also give hints as to how deep the preprocessing went. For example one tab may say Amazon search and another may say Amazon one click indicating to the user that clicking on the Amazon search tab means that the state of that tab is that the user input has been preprocessed such that as in a normal Amazon search a list of items is returned for browsing but that the state is not a one click state in which the user could do just one more click to complete a purchase and delivery. The depth of the preprocessing can also be performed based on how much disambiguation is needed. If the user does not provide enough data then only search level states may be provided. If there are only two options such as two colors to choose from on an item and the user did not specify a color the system could present in a tab two different items each having a one click purchasing button such that the tab is still in a one click purchasing state but two items are presented on the page such that no further navigation is necessary. The system could present a gold one click option and a silver one click option for purchase.

In a typical web search a user clicks to select a search field enters text waits for the results page to load clicks a desired link in the results page and finally arrives at the desired link after waiting for it to load. If the user desires to continue and make a purchase then the user must either log in with an existing account or create a new account with the website place the item in a virtual shopping cart check out provide shipping information and so forth. This process requires many steps. A unified input field that prepopulates a shopping cart for the user can greatly simplify this process.

A system method and computer readable storage devices are disclosed which prepopulate a shopping cart in an online vendor s web site based on intent determined by a classifier that processes input provided to the unified input field. A user can be registered with and or logged in with his or her browser such as Chrome Firefox Internet Explorer or Opera such that user s purchasing credit debit card or other accounts and delivery addresses are stored in a user profile. Then if the user desires to make a purchase through a destination website that may have a product not found on their registered website the browser or system processing in a network can handle negotiation between the browser and the website such that the system can convert a shopping cart based model website with which the user is not registered into a one click purchasing experience for the user. For example the system can handle the payment for the item and communicate with the merchant site to handle delivery.

Assuming that appropriate permissions are in place such as in a browser setting authorizing the browser to navigate and provide input in a web site s purchasing registration or shopping cart process to automatically input name address credit card information etc. the system can automatically populate a shopping cart including even registering on behalf of the user at a website with which the user has not registered. The user provides input in a unified input field such as buy acme toaster 4.5 which the system and the classifier categorize as a desire to make a purchase of a particular toaster model. The system determines based on various criteria such as pricing shipping country and so forth a merchant website that offers that toaster model. The user has never registered or made a purchase at the merchant web site offering the toaster for sale. Thus if the user were to buy the toaster from that merchant website the user would have to place the toaster in a virtual shopping cart then enter personal information such as address credit debit card information user name password and so forth to have the item shipped.

In this model the system can identify the merchant website based on the input provided via the unified input field. Then the system can navigate to the state in the merchant website where the user would normally click to place the item in the shopping cart. In this case however the system will navigate the merchant website where the item can be placed in the shopping cart and determine that the user is not registered with this merchant website. Then the system can automatically communicate with the merchant website such as via a new user registration page to create a new account on behalf of the user using the user data available to the system and or to the browser. Thus the system can present to the user just the confirmation in a button to purchase via one click. The confirmation can be a double confirmation of authorization to create a new account and authorization to then place the order using the new account. The user can automatically authorize new registrations and can establish settings or preferences governing new profile registrations. The system can then enter all the necessary data retrieved from the browser or some other location to complete the registration and cause the item to be purchased and shipped without the need of further user input. This approach can turn non one click purchasing websites into one click purchasing websites via input through the unified input field. The system can also use the registered payment information to process the payment as well and coordinate with the merchant site for filling the order.

The system can process the new registration pages silently such as in a background tab or new window in the browser or can negotiate the new registration process with the merchant website without presenting the registration page to the user at all. The system can present a progress bar on the same page containing the unified input field after the user requests a purchase such as by pressing enter after providing input via the unified input field. The progress bar can indicate to the user the progress of creating a new account entering shipping data adding the item to the cart of the merchant website and placing the order.

The user can establish default preferences for which personal information to use for new registrations. The user can establish these default preferences in advance of encountering the merchant website or even in advance of encountering the unified input field. Alternatively at the first instance where a registration is required the system can prompt the user to establish such settings and or provide additional information.

The system can prefer merchant websites with which the user already has an account or with which the user is already registered. For example if Merchant X and Merchant Y both offer the same item for sale the system can choose to use the one of these two merchants where the user already has an account. The system can determine this by examining a browser history profile data available to the browser or cookies stored by the browser or by other browsers associated with the user. The system can intelligently determine when to use a merchant with which the user is not registered such as based on a difference in shipping time or a difference in price. For example if the merchant with whom the user is not registered offers the desired item at a price that is at least 25 lower than the merchant with whom the user is registered then the system can create a new account. If the user does not desire to have the system create user accounts on his or her behalf the user can instruct the system to make purchases where he or she already has accounts or at merchant websites which allow guest accounts.

However the system can identify using the classifier and user profile data the merchants the user is most likely to select and present them to the user for disambiguation. The system can present to the user a table such as by a JavaScript popup showing merchants shipping times and total price including shipping and tax. The user can simply click on a desired merchant from the table and the system can automatically register the user with that merchant if necessary and process the order with that merchant. The user only has to make one click to identify the merchant and the system handles the rest of the steps thereby providing a one click interface into a non one click website via the unified input field.

The system can preprocess the second website using the input in the second input field such that the user is in a state after the automatic transitioning where a product associated with the input can be processed for purchase and delivery via a one click action from the user . Preprocessing the second website can include transmitting user data from one of the first website and a browser to the second website or automatically navigating through the shopping cart model of the second website to yield the state where the product can be processed for purchase and delivery via the one click action. The system can further preprocess a third website using the input in a third input field such that the user is in a state after the automatic transitioning where a product associated with the input can be processed for purchase and delivery via a one click action from the user and present the third website as an option for the user to choose in the browser.

The preprocessing can be according to a user profile with various preferences. For example in a user profile associated with the first website or with a browser. The user profile can utilize information such as payment account data delivery data preferences such as not to click on receiving any email notifications and any other possible choices that can be made in processing a shopping cart model. The application browser or website via an API can then communicate in the background can perform all of those navigations and input necessary so that such input can be automatically handled to the extent that the user is presented with the second website in a state where they are ready to one click and make the final purchase and delivery. The API can include all of the information necessary for the second web site that is necessary the fill in and enter all of the necessary data to finalize the purchase. For example the first site can process a payment and the second site can finalize the order by filling it and handling delivery. The first website or browser or application can hold all possible information that various shopping cart models can and do request in processing the purchase. As a particular second website is chosen as the one to which or through which the user is likely to make a purchase from. The first website or browser establishes via an API a connection to the second website with the various information necessary for preprocessing the input. The data such as the user input identifying the product that they want to buy and any other generated data that helps to narrow down and disambiguate which product to present for purchase via a one click input. For example the user may input iPhone 5S 32 GB but not a color. The system can choose a most popular color and provide that data to the second website to enable a narrowing down of which model to present. The system can also present secondary options such that alternate choices can be easily made accessible via the second website for potential selection if the primary choice is the wrong color or is not the desired product to buy.

A system method and computer readable storage devices are disclosed which enable any input field in a website or in some other computer based user interface to act as a unified input field. A unified input field allows a user to provide input that can lead not only to a listing of search results but can cause any of a number of other actions to be performed on behalf of the user such as directly navigating to a merchant shopping cart prepopulated with a desired item or even automatically executing a purchase and placing an order for a desired item. Using such a unified input field can save significant time effort and clicks for a user. However such unified input fields may not be implemented in every website or other user interface the user desires. The user may become accustomed to a particular workflow or set of capabilities when dealing with unified input fields and may feel restricted or limited when using a traditional limited input field.

In one embodiment if the user is directed from a unified input field enabled site such as one search.com to Apple.com then that user s interaction with Apple.com could be modified such that the search field of Apple.com or any website such as Google.com or Amazon.com becomes like a one search.com unified input field. For example a JavaScript script or browser plugin can intercept text entered into text fields on non unified input field enabled sites or non unified input fields and redirect that input to one search.com to implement these features and present the autocomplete options and the one click purchase options. In other words the options to do any number of different processing options outside of the particular website can be made available to the user. In this manner any search field text field or input field can be adapted to be a unified input field as disclosed herein. Of course all of the functionality disclosed herein could be built into any search or input field on any website application or user interface.

Functionality of the browser can be modified directly or via a plug in script or extension to implement a unified input field in place of an existing input field. The user can activate the input field enhancer such as by checking a checkbox in a menu clicking a button logging in with a username and password or providing some other user identifying credentials. The input field enhancer can then identify the user and retrieve personal data about the user such as a profile stored in a browser cache or a profile stored on a server. The system can identify user preferences from the profile data which may provide rules or preferences for when and how to modify certain input fields to be unified input fields. For example a user profile may indicate not to modify input fields on craigslist.org but to modify input fields everywhere else. Another user profile may indicate to modify all text input fields located within the top 10 of a website. Another user profile may indicate not to modify text input fields on mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets but to modify text input fields on desktop or laptop computers. The user can log in to a user profile that is stored on a server so that the user s preferences and other personal data are not limited to one local machine but instead are accessible from any such enabled machine. Thus the user can log in to a browser on a work computer to enable unified input fields and can do the same on a home computer while using the same personal profile preferences and history. This personal information can be important for a classifier when determining intent based on a relatively short input string and can provide a sense of consistency for the user when unified input fields behave similarly across multiple devices.

The enhancer can be triggered when a new page is loaded in the browser or when the page is refreshed or updated such as by an Ajax call that dynamically loads or modifies page elements. The enhancer can operate in conjunction with a rendering engine or web browser engine to identify input fields while rendering the page. In this variation the enhancer can modify the code for a page as the page is being parsed and or rendered. The enhancer can operate as a post loading operation that goes back and revises an already loaded and rendered page. In either way the enhancer modifies the functionality of an identified input field to capture and redirect the input to a local or remote server to provide similar or the same functionality as a unified input field. Then the server can communicate with the browser to implement the various benefits and functionalities of the unified input field such as presenting previews of one click purchase actions as tears on the webpage as new tabs or windows expose such one click purchase actions via the search button or some other button and so forth.

The system can mark an input field or present some kind of visual or audible indication that the input field has been modified or enabled as a unified input field. For example when the system detects a standard text input field such as the search field at the top of ebay.com the system can determine whether that standard text input field is suitable for repurposing as a unified input field. If the system makes a positive determination then the system can modify the standard text input field s functionality as well as its appearance. For example the system can render a different color border around the text field or can make a noise when focus moves on to or in the text input field or when a mouse or text cursor enters the text field. The system can apply a change in size font appearance or even introduce an animation highlighting the modified text field. User preferences can also dictate how the system highlights the modified text field.

Then when the user enters text into the modified text field the system can process the input via the classifier to determine an intent and generate one or more actions which can be taken based on the intent. In some cases if the classifier is unable to determine an intent above a certainty threshold then the system may not present any actions based on the input and may choose to wait for additional input which may change the intent and or the certainty threshold. How the system determines to present the one click actions based on the determined intent may vary based on the browser displaying the page or the layout of the page hosting the modified text field. For example if the text field has sufficient adjacent white space the system can render one click buttons proximate to the text field for performing the various actions. The system can present drop down menus with one click actions as part of the browser outside the rendered web page containing the modified text field. The system can use JavaScript to modify or rearrange certain page elements to temporarily or permanently for the life the page as rendered temporarily accommodate user interface elements for the one click actions. The system can use JavaScript to overlay new user interface elements on top of the rendered page for providing access to the one click actions. In one embodiment the system presents user interface elements that look like tears that peek through the rendered page to show a portion of a page that appears to be beneath the rendered page.

However even when a text field has been modified the system can still preserve the original functionality of an input field while extending the input field to also act as a unified input field. For example the user can toggle between the modified functionality and the original functionality by pressing shift in the beginning of the input field. The system can also toggle the appearance of the modified input field to indicate to which function of the modified input field the user is directing input.

The system can identify text fields which are candidates to be modified but can leave them untouched until receiving some user command or input requesting the unified input field functionality. For example the system can provide access to unified input field functionality upon the user activating or requesting the functionality by pressing a key or key combination or double clicking in the input field. The user can in this manner toggle between different functionalities for the input field. This can be beneficial to avoid breaking some websites that rely on specific functionality of the input field. However the system can overlay the unified input functionality over the existing original functionality of the input field without hindering its operation. For example the system can implement the unified input field one click actions in a different region of the user interface while allowing the original functionality to proceed unchanged. Or the system can incorporate the original functionality as one of the one click actions presented via the unified input functionality. For example if the user entered the text iPhone 5C 32 GB yellow in a modified input field on eBay.com the system can generate a set of buttons overlaid on top of the page via JavaScript a first one click action button for purchasing the indicated iPhone 5C via Amazon.com a second one click action button for purchasing the indicated iPhone 5C via Apple.com a third one click action button for purchasing the indicated iPhone 5C via attwireless.com and a fourth one click action button for implementing the original input field functionality of executing a search of auctions on eBay.com.

The system can further adapt the functionality of the unified input field based on the detected type of browser or available space on the interface. For instance the system can present a user interface that is consistent with the look and feel of the page hosting the modified input field. If the page hosting the modified input field has advertisements the system can position the one click action buttons or other user interface elements in such a way to avoid obscuring those advertisements. This setting can be dictated by code or settings in the page hosting the modified input field such as a token or instruction intended to guide the behavior of a modified input field.

In one embodiment a website can pre modify an input field by making it unified input field aware. In cases when the website detects that the user does not participate in or use unified input fields the input field can retain its original functionality. However when the website detects that the user does participate in or uses unified input fields such as by detecting a cookie in the user s browser the website can preemptively modify or activate the unified input field to provide a more familiar interface for that user. The website can interact with a server for managing such unified input field requests via an established application programming interface API .

A method includes receiving input from a user via a unified input field associated with a first application of a first type and analyzing the input to determine whether a process to be carried out on the input should be processed by a second application of a second type to yield a determination wherein the first type and the second type are different types . If the determination indicates that to carry out the intent of the user according to the input the second application should process the input then the system communicates with the second application information including the input wherein the second application is started and preprocessed using the input to yield the second application in a processed state . Finally the system presents the second application to the user in the processed state .

The presenting occurs without any additional input from the user to navigate to the second application. Communicating with the second application can further include communicating at least one of the following to the second application user identification information payment account information delivery address information and user preferences. As noted above the process can involve switching between browsers at particular websites to apps on a smartphone or tablet or other device. An application in this case is generally known. It is a software product purchased or downloaded for free that performs typically a single general purpose like enabling purchases through Amazon or handling video and audio calls like Skype. Such applications of course differ from the URL which can be associated with the same company but provide different mechanisms of accessing the services of that company.

The first application and the second application are one of smartphone applications and tablet applications. Again in another aspect this disclosure provides a description of switching between a URL website and an application. The system can automatically close the first application and start and present the second application in the processed state on a user interface. This enables the user to avoid the process of closing one app and manually launching the desired application. In one example the first type is a search type and the second type is a product purchasing type. The first type can for example be a type not associated with purchasing products and the second type can be associated with purchasing products. This provides an example of switching between contexts types applications purpose and so forth but while using a single input field. This approach reduces the interactions necessary for a user to get a function performed search purchase delivery call etc. because it eliminates the need to navigate to a separate URL or a separate application that performs the desired function. In example the first application can process a payment for an item and coordinate with the second application for delivery of the item to a buyer.

The first application can be one of a first website and a first smartphone tablet application and the second application is one of a second website and a second smartphone tablet application. The group of modes can include a tear an autochange a search button morph a drop up menu a drop down menu a processing indictor morph and multiple reduced size one click enabled windows. A tear represents an opening in a first interface that makes it appear that the first interface is tearing open to reveal another interface below it. So if the first application was google.com and the user entered a search term that was determined to indicate that the user desires to make a purchase an opening or a tear in the white space of the google.com page could appear and through that opening would appear a portion of an amazon.com webpage preprocessed with the search term such that the user can click on the opening space and easily transition from google.com to amazon.com with the input field data also transitioning as well. This approach reduces the number of necessary clicks. The autochange feature automatically replaces the URL from google.com to amazon.com or whatever the two different websites are without user input such that when the system determines that a switch is needed it automatically does it and perhaps further processing to place the destination website in a one click purchasing state based on the user input. The search button the button that indicates what process is performed if a user clicks enter can morph in its functionality based on the user input. A notification of the function to be processed can also morph as well. Drop up drop down extension menus can also be provided which not only do auto complete but also present one click purchasing options calling options video conferencing options etc. These various modes present alternate mechanisms of transitioning automatically to a new webpage application or function. However given that there are different ways of making such a transition the user can present and store preferences of how to make that transition. Alternately various options could be presented and user history previous searching and internet or application usage or other factors outside of or in connection with the user profile could be used to make the decision of the chosen mode.

The tear open to another page can include a one click option that the user can click to make a one click purchase. The system can maintain that tear view of the other page on the search interface while executing additional searches exploring other search results or browsing to other websites. For example the user can pin the tear in place so it remains available while the user conducts additional browsing activity. Thus the user could hold the one click purchase tear while reviewing studying searching around the web and the user can still use the tear to make a purchase later on.

Transitioning the user can include transitioning the user without the user navigating manually to the second application. Transitioning the user can be achieved through the user performing a single click action to initiate and complete the transitioning. Transitioning the user from the first application to the second application can further include preprocessing the second application using at least one of the input user identification user account information user delivery information and user preferences to yield the second application in a one click purchasing state. For example the first application can process the payment and coordinate necessary data to the second application for delivery. Determining the mode can further be based on a screen configuration of a device running the first application. The mode may also be changing from one type of application like a website accessed via a browser to another type of application like a smartphone tablet application. All of the preprocessing and so forth can occur in any transition such that the user is positioned in a state within the destination that enables them to either browse search results say on Amazon where the input provided on google.com is used to present search results or in a one click state where the user can just click to purchase an item.

There are a number of different ways of transitioning from a first input field context or environment to another without the need of the user actively navigating to the destination environment. In this embodiment since the system knows the intent of the user based on the analysis of the input data of the user the system can use that intent and the knowledge of the destination site to present advertisements at some point during the transition.

For example if the user is on google.com and enters iPhone 5s 64 GB silver the system may determine that the intent is to make a purchase. A tear could open up in the white space of the webpage revealing a portion of an amazon.com page in a purchase state where the user can just one click and buy the iPhone and have it delivered. However elsewhere on the white space the system could present a Samsung device advertisement which also could be positioned in a one click state to tempt the user to purchase a different product or to explore a different product. Presenting the advertisement could be based on a price paid for the advertisement. A position within an extension menu of the second website or application of the advertisement could also be based on a negotiated price. In this case when an extension menu is presented a highest paid advertiser could be positioned closest to the input field. Presenting the advertisement in one of the ways identified can be chosen based on a negotiated price. The method can include transitioning the user from the first website or application to the second website or application based on an intent identified from the input and without manual user navigation.

The presenting can occur without any additional input from the user to navigate to the second website. In other words the user just types in the input into the input field and the preprocessing of the other websites and presentation of those websites in one of a number of possible preprocessed states is performed automatically and without any navigation input from the user. The number of alternate websites presented in processed states could be also done based on the amount of disambiguation information needed. If the user only puts in iPhone 5s then many alternate preprocessed websites could be presented for 32 GB one click purchase gold 64 GB one click purchase etc. The user can see these various offerings and disambiguate by simply typing in disambiguation data such as 32 and silver . The presentation then of the other website can automatically morph such that it narrows down the offerings to perhaps a one click from Amazon and a one click from Apple. illustrates the interface with the search field search button and various alternate destination sites such as one from Amazon for a one click purchase and Apple website for a one click purchase. An eBay website with a one click purchase or a one click bid button and an Amazon search results offering wherein if the user click that button the URL switches to amazon.com and is preprocessed as though the user had entered in iPhone 5s 32 GB and hit search directly on Amazon.com. As can be appreciated preprocessing the input in this way reduces the number of interactions necessary by the user to navigate from a search website like Google.com to a product purchasing website like Amazon.com and then provide input to search and make a purchase.

The processed state can include one of a state wherein the user could perform a single click which would cause a purchase and delivery of an item associated with the input or wherein the user could perform a single click and view search results on the second website as though the user had navigated to the second website and entered in the input for a search. The method can include identifying a third website that could process the input and presenting the third website in the area on the user interface in a second position around the unified input field. illustrates this approach. The second website and the third website can be in different states as is result compared to results . Further a position of the second website and the third website relative to the unified input field can be dependent on which of the second website and the third website has a most likely intent based on the input. Clicking on the one click or the search button in one of the destination sites not only causes the purchase and delivery but also causes an automatic transitioning from the first website URL such as www.google.com to the chosen website URL such as www.amazon.com . In other words clicking on the one click button or other function button such as search results not only processes the purchase and delivery but also causes the transition to the other website. If a user had navigated to www.amazon.com initially and searched until they click on the one click purchasing button then they would see at www.amazon.com the notice Thank you for your 1 click purchase it is being processed. At that stage the user could go to their account and change or cancel the order track the order etc. The point here is that by clicking on the one click button presented in feature of which is presented on the URL www.google.com the system automatically causes the URL to change to www.amazon.com in such a processed states as to present that message Thank you for your 1 click purchase it is being processed. At that stage there is no difference in essence between the initial navigation to www.amazon.com and this automatic transition from www.google.com. Of course the navigation can be from any website or application to any other website or application. The transition can also include separating the processing of payment and managing delivery. For example google.com could handle payment for an item but coordinate with www.merchant.com for delivery of the order.

As an example a user enters in the iPhone 6 into the search field thus the user input is iPhone 6 . The user types in the text and hits enter or search . The system processes that input and constructs an interaction for the user that enables the user without performing any further interactions after hitting enter i.e. no need to navigate to another website or jump to another application such that the next interaction can be does not have to be but is structured such that it can be a user interaction with the user selectable option to buy purchase and or deliver the iPhone 6. Thus the method includes receiving the single interaction with the user selectable option from the user and processing based on the single interaction the purchase of the item associated with the user input . Of course the processing can include purchase and delivery. Other options available to the user of course could include tailoring the purchasing process to be a delivery to a relative or friend someone other than the purchaser or to pay in a different way that is preferable set on the user profile. Much like purchasing processes and capabilities with outlets like Amazon.com the present disclosure encompasses all such functionality at this stage as well. For example the interaction with the buy option can result in the first entity associated with the unified input field processing a payment of an item and coordinating with a separate merchant for filling or finalizing the order by delivering the item to the buyer. The first entity would them handle making a payment to the merchant.

Embodiments within the scope of the present disclosure may also include tangible and or non transitory computer readable storage devices for carrying or having computer executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such tangible computer readable storage devices can be any available device that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer including the functional design of any special purpose processor as described above. By way of example and not limitation such tangible computer readable devices can include RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other device which can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of computer executable instructions data structures or processor chip design. When information or instructions are provided via a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or combination thereof to a computer the computer properly views the connection as a computer readable medium. Thus any such connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of the computer readable storage devices.

Computer executable instructions include for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions. Computer executable instructions also include program modules that are executed by computers in stand alone or network environments. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures objects and the functions inherent in the design of special purpose processors etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Computer executable instructions associated data structures and program modules represent examples of the program code means for executing steps of the methods disclosed herein. The particular sequence of such executable instructions or associated data structures represents examples of corresponding acts for implementing the functions described in such steps.

Other embodiments of the disclosure may be practiced in network computing environments with many types of computer system configurations including personal computers hand held devices multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Embodiments may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by local and remote processing devices that are linked either by hardwired links wireless links or by a combination thereof through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

The various embodiments described above are provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed to limit the scope of the disclosure. Various modifications and changes may be made to the principles described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described herein and without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Claim language reciting at least one of a set indicates that one member of the set or multiple members of the set satisfy the claim.

