---

title: Method for creating a content and electronic device thereof
abstract: A method for creating a content in an electronic device is provided. The method includes acquiring first media data acquired by at least one external electronic device, acquiring second media data on a basis of at least a part of the first media data, recognizing a feature of the second media data acquired by the at least one external electronic device, and creating the content on a basis of at least a part of the feature of the second media data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09508383&OS=09508383&RS=09508383
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09508383
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20160203
---
This is a continuation application of prior U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 622 081 filed on Feb. 13 2015 which claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed on Feb. 19 2014 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial No. 10 2014 0019346 the entire disclosure of each of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to a technique for creating media data acquired from a plurality of electronic devices as one content.

Electronic devices are under development as multimedia devices for providing various services such as voice and video call functions information input and output functions and data transmission and reception.

If a video is captured by using a camera equipped in the electronic device a user can edit the video after completing the video capture.

As described above the video captured in the electronic device is edited after the capture is complete. Since it takes a long time to edit the video the user of the electronic device experiences an inconvenience.

The above information is presented as background information only to assist with an understanding of the present disclosure. No determination has been made and no assertion is made as to whether any of the above might be applicable as prior art with regard to the present disclosure.

Aspects of the present disclosure are to address at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a method and apparatus in which an electronic device creates a content by acquiring media data from a plurality of electronic devices.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a method and apparatus in which an electronic device creates a content on a basis of a feature of media data acquired from a plurality of electronic devices.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a method and apparatus in which an electronic device determines whether to re encode media data on the basis of a feature of the media data acquired from a plurality of electronic devices.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure a method for creating a content in an electronic device is provided. The method includes acquiring first media data acquired by at least one external electronic device acquiring second media data on a basis of at least a part of the first media data recognizing a feature of the second media data acquired by the at least one external electronic device and creating the content on a basis of at least a part of the feature of the second media data.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device for creating a content is provided. The electronic device includes a memory a display unit a communication module and a content creating module configured to acquire first media data in the electronic device to acquire second media data on a basis of at least a part of the first media data to recognize a feature of the second media data to create the content on a basis of at least a part of the feature of the second media data and to store the content into the memory.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure a non transitory computer readable storage medium is provided. The non transitory computer readable storage medium includes instructions of a program for executing operations of acquiring first media data in an electronic device acquiring second media data on a basis of at least a part of the first media data recognizing a feature of the second media data and creating the content on a basis of at least a part of the feature of the second media data.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses various embodiments of the present disclosure.

Throughout the drawings it should be noted that like reference numbers are used to depict the same or similar elements features and structures.

The following description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of various embodiments of the present disclosure as defined by the claims and their equivalents. It includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the various embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness.

The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to the bibliographical meanings but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the present disclosure. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of various embodiments of the present disclosure is provided for illustration purpose only and not for the purpose of limiting the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a component surface includes reference to one or more of such surfaces.

An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be one or more combinations of various devices such as a smart phone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP an Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG 1 Audio Layer 3 MP3 player a mobile medical device an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic appcessory a camera a wearable device an electronic clock a wrist watch a smart white appliance e.g. a refrigerator an air conditioner a cleaner an artificial intelligent robot a TeleVision TV a Digital Video Disk DVD player an audio an oven a microwave oven a washing machine an air purifier an electronic picture frame etc. various medical devices e.g. Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI Computed Tomography CT imaging equipment ultrasonic instrument etc. a navigation device a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FDR a set top box a TV box e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV an electronic dictionary a car infotainment device an electronic equipment for ship e.g. a vessel navigation device a gyro compass etc. avionics a security device an electronic costume an electronic key a camcorder game consoles a Head Mounted Display HMD a flat panel display device an electronic album a furniture or a part of building constructions including a communication function an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector etc. It is apparent to those ordinarily skilled in the art that the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure is not limited to the aforementioned devices.

In the various embodiments of the present disclosure the media data may include at least one of an audio and a video.

In the various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may be a server for sharing the media data. Further the electronic device may be a client for sharing the media data. Furthermore the electronic device may be both the server and client for sharing the media data.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure in a case where the electronic device is the server for sharing media data as shown in an electronic device may perform a communication connection with at least one external electronic devices and .

The electronic device may display first media data and acquired from the electronic device or the external electronic devices and onto preview screens and . On the basis of the preview screens and selected in the electronic device the electronic device or at least one external electronic device may be requested to transmit second media data. In this case the electronic device may enlarge and display the selected preview screens and . In addition the electronic device may display a boundary of the selected preview screens and differently from other preview screens. In the various embodiments of the present disclosure the first media data may be preview data. In the various embodiments of the present disclosure the second media may be data to be stored.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure in a case where the electronic device starts to create a content the electronic device may create the content on the basis of at least a part of the second media data acquired from the electronic device or the external electronic devices and . In the content creating process the electronic device may create the content on the basis of the second media data which is received by requesting the electronic device or the external electronic device to transmit the second media data that is the data to be stored on the basis of a user selection from the first media data i.e. preview data received from the electronic device or each of the external electronic devices.

In addition the second media data may be received from the electronic device or the external electronic device on the basis of the user selection. According to the various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may store previously received second media data and newly received second media data by linking the data to each other. In this case the electronic device may compare features of the previously received second media data and the newly received second media data. For example the electronic device may compare at least one of an extension a coder decoder CODEC a resolution a brightness a bit rate whether an audio is included whether a subtitle is included an audio volume level a subtitle font a video profile a level a compression scheme e.g. context adaptive variable length coding CAVLC context adaptive binary arithmetic coding CABAC and the like of the second media data. If the previously received second media data and the newly received second media data have different features the electronic device may convert e.g. re encode the newly received second media data to have the same feature as the previously received second media data. The electronic device may store the data by linking the newly received second media data and the previously received second media data.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure in a case where the electronic device is the client for sharing the media data as shown in if the electronic device starts to share the media data with at least any one of the external electronic devices and the electronic device may transmit the first media data to any one of the external electronic devices. If any one of the external electronic devices starts to create a content the electronic device may transmit the second media data to the any one of the external electronic devices starting to create the content. In this case the electronic device may transmit the second media data in accordance with a time of requesting the second media data on the basis of an index table stored in a memory. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the index table may include at least one of a data type length offset and timestamp for each frame or each stream of media data.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure as shown in media data received from the external electronic devices or media data of the electronic device may be displayed with the same size in the electronic device .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure as shown in media data received in the electronic device from the external electronic devices or media data of the electronic device may be displayed by changing a location of displaying the media data.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure if media data received from the electronic device or external electronic devices shown in is selected a boundary of a preview screen displayed on the basis of at least a part of the selected media data may be displayed differently from an unselected preview screen. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the boundary of the selected preview screen may be displayed in an emphasized manner. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the boundary of the selected preview screen may be displayed in a flickering manner.

Referring to an electronic device may include a bus a processor a memory a user input module a display module a communication module and a content creating module .

The bus may be a circuit for connecting the constitutional elements e.g. the bus the processor the memory the user input module the display module the communication module and the content creating module and for delivering communication e.g. a control message between the constitutional elements.

The processor may receive an instruction from other constitutional elements included in the electronic device and may interpret the received instruction and execute an arithmetic operation or data processing according to the interpreted instruction. In this case the processor may execute at least one application stored in the memory and may provide a service according to the application.

In addition the processor may include one or more Application Processors APs or one or more Communication Processors CPs . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP and the CP may be included in the processor or may be included respectively in different Integrated Circuit IC packages. In addition the AP and the CP may be included in one IC package. The AP may control a plurality of hardware or software constitutional elements connected to the AP by driving an operating system or an application program and may process a variety of data including multimedia data and may perform an arithmetic operation. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP may be implemented with a System on Chip SoC . In addition the CP may perform at least a part of a multimedia control function. In addition the CP may identify and authenticate a terminal in a communication network by using a subscriber identity module SIM e.g. SIM card . In this case the CP may provide a service including a voice call a video call a text message or packet data to a user. In addition the CP may control data transmission reception of the communication module . The AP or the CP may load an instruction or data which is received from each non volatile memory connected thereto or at least one of different constitutional elements to a volatile memory and may process the instruction or data. In addition the AP or the CP may store data which is received from at least one of different constitutional elements or generated by at least one of different constitutional elements in the non volatile memory. The CP may perform a function of managing a data link and changing a communication protocol in communication between different electronic devices connected through a network to an electronic device including hardware elements. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the CP may be implemented with an SoC. In addition the processor may further include a Graphic Processing Unit GPU .

The memory may store an instruction or data received from the processor or other constitutional elements e.g. the user input module the display module the communication module the content creating module or generated by the processor or other constitutional elements. In this case the memory may include an internal buffer and an external buffer. For example the memory may store media data acquired by using a camera not shown by compressing or not compressing the media data. For another example the memory may store an index table for the media data acquired by using the camera not shown . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the index table may include at least one of a data type length offset and timestamp for each frame or each stream of the media data.

Further the memory may include a media data sharing service program not shown for creating a content by receiving media data from at least one external electronic device connected to the electronic device and a media data sharing client program not shown for creating a content by transmitting media data to at least one external electronic device connected to the electronic device. In this case each application may be configured with a programming module and each programming module may be configured in software firmware hardware or at least two or more of combinations thereof.

A display control program not shown may include at least one software constitutional element for controlling the display module to display at least one piece of display data. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display control program not shown may display image data received from the external electronic device by using the display module .

In addition the memory may include an internal memory or an external memory. The internal memory may include at least one of a volatile memory e.g. a Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM a Static RAM SRAM a Synchronous DRAM SDRAM etc. or a non volatile memory e.g. a One Time Programmable Read Only Memory OTPROM a Programmable ROM PROM an Erasable and Programmable ROM EPROM an Electrically Erasable PROM EEPROM a Mask ROM a Flash ROM a Not And NAND flash memory a Not Or NOR flash memory etc. . In this case the internal memory may have a form of a Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory may further include Compact Flash CF Secure Digital SD Micro SD Mini SD extreme Digital xD memory stick and the like.

The memory may include a programming module such as a kernel a middleware an Application Programming Interface API an application and the like. Each of the aforementioned programming modules may consist of software firmware or hardware entities or may consist of at least two or more combinations thereof.

The kernel may control or manage system resources e.g. the bus the processor or memory used to execute an operation or function implemented in the remaining other programming modules e.g. the middleware the API or the application . In addition the kernel may provide a controllable or manageable interface by accessing individual constitutional elements of the electronic device in the middleware the API or the application .

The middleware may perform an intermediary role so that the API or the application communicates with the kernel to exchange data. In addition according to task requests received from at least one application the middleware may perform load balancing for the task request by using a method of assigning a priority capable of using a system resource e.g. the bus the processor or memory of the electronic device .

The API may include at least one interface or function e.g. an instruction for file control window control video processing or character control etc. according to an embodiment of the present disclosure as an interface capable of controlling a function provided by the application in the kernel or the middleware .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the application may include an Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Messaging Service MMS application an e mail application a calendar application an alarm application a health care application e.g. an application for measuring a physical activity level a blood sugar etc. or an environment information application e.g. atmospheric pressure humidity or temperature information . Additionally or alternatively the application may be an application related to an information exchange between the electronic device and an external electronic device e.g. an electronic device or . The application related to the information exchange may include for example a notification relay application for relaying specific information to the external electronic device or a device management application for managing the external electronic device.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the notification relay application may include a function of relaying notification information generated in another application e.g. an SMS MMS application an e mail application a health care application an environment information application etc. of the electronic device to the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device or . Additionally or alternatively the notification relay application may receive notification information according to an embodiment of the present disclosure from the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device or and may provide it to the user. The device management application may manage e.g. install delete or update according to an embodiment of the present disclosure a function e.g. turning on turning off the external electronic device itself or some components thereof or adjusting of a display illumination or a resolution for at least one part of the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device or which communicates with the electronic device an application which operates in the external electronic device or a service e.g. a call service or a message service provided by the external electronic device.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the application may include an application specified according to attribute information e.g. an electronic device type of the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device or . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure if the external electronic device is an MP3 player the application may include an application related to a music play. Similarly if the external electronic device is a mobile medical device the application may include an application related to a health care. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the application may include at least one of an application designated to the electronic device or an application received from the external electronic device e.g. a server or the electronic device or .

The user input module may receive an instruction or data from a user and deliver it to the processor or the memory via the bus . For example the user input module may include a touch panel a pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input unit. For example the touch panel may recognize a touch input by using at least one of an electrostatic type a pressure sensitive type and an ultrasonic type. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the touch panel may further include a controller. In case of the electrostatic type not only direct touch but also proximity recognition is also possible. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel may provide the user with a tactile reaction. For example the pen sensor may be implemented by using the same or similar method of receiving a touch input of the user or by using an additional sheet for recognition. For example the key may include a keypad or a touch key. For example the ultrasonic input unit is a device by which the electronic device detects a sound wave through a microphone by using a pen which generates an ultrasonic signal and is a device capable of radio recognition.

The display module may display image video or data to the user. For example the display module may include a panel or a hologram. For example the panel may be a Liquid Crystal Display LCD or an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AM OLED . In addition the panel may be implemented in a flexible transparent or wearable manner. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the panel may be constructed as one module with the touch panel. For example the hologram may use an interference of light and show a stereoscopic image in the air. In addition the display module may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel or the hologram.

In addition the display module may display a content under the control of a display control application not shown . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display module may display image data received from an external electronic device under the control of the display control program not shown .

The communication module may connect communication between the different electronic device or and the electronic device via a network . In this case the communication module may support a specific near distance communication protocol e.g. Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi Bluetooth BT Near Field Communication NFC or specific network communication e.g. Internet Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN telecommunication network cellular network satellite network Plain Old Telephone Service POTS etc. .

A camera not shown may acquire a subject by using an image sensor. As an Image Signal Processor ISP a media data processor not shown may convert output data e.g. raw data from the camera not shown into image frame a Red Green and Blue RGB YUV data having a format of a predetermined protocol and may provide it to the processor or the content creating module . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the camera not shown may include an infrared camera module and an ultrasonic camera module.

Each of the different electronic devices and may be the same e.g. the same type device as the electronic device or may be a different e.g. a different type device.

In addition the electronic device may further include a sensor module. The sensor module may include at least one of a gesture sensor a gyro sensor a pressure sensor a magnetic sensor an acceleration sensor a grip sensor a proximity sensor a RGB sensor a bio sensor a body conductivity sensor an image sensor a temperature sensor a humidity sensor an illumination sensor and an Ultra Violet UV sensor. In addition the sensor module may measure a physical quantity or detect an operation state of the electronic device and thus may convert the measured or detected information into an electric signal. For example the sensor module may include an E nose sensor an ElectroMyoGraphy EMG sensor an ElectroEncephaloGram EEG sensor an ElectroCardioGram ECG sensor a fingerprint sensor and the like. In addition the sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling at least one or more sensors included therein.

Names of hardware constitutional elements according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may vary depending on a type of the electronic device. The hardware according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the aforementioned constitutional elements and some of the constitutional elements may be omitted or additional other constitutional elements may be further included. In addition some of the hardware constitutional elements according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be combined and constructed as one entity so as to equally perform functions of corresponding components before combination.

Referring to the content creating module may include a media data sharing server control module a media data sharing client control module and a display control module . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the content creating module may be included in the processor or may be configured as a separate module.

The media data sharing server control module may control to create a content by receiving media data from at least one external electronic device connected to the electronic device. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure as shown in if the electronic device is connected for communication with the external electronic devices and the media data sharing server control module may control to display the preview screens and based on at least a part of first media data received from the peer electronic devices and . If the preview of the second external electronic device is selected the media data sharing server control module may control to enlarge and display the preview of the second external electronic device see . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the media data sharing server control module may request an external electronic device corresponding a preview selected from the preview screens and to transmit second media data. If content creating starts in a state where the preview of the second external electronic device is selected see the media data sharing server control module may request the second external electronic device to transmit the second media data captured from a current time. If at least one of the remaining previews other than the preview of the second external electronic device which is currently transmitting the second media data is selected from the plurality of preview screens and after receiving the second media data currently being received from the second external electronic device the media data sharing server control module may receive second media data of the first external electronic device or the third external electronic device or the electronic device and may store the data into the memory .

The media data sharing client control module may control to transmit media data to at least one external electronic device connected to the electronic device. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure as shown in the media data sharing client control module may transmit first media data to at least one of the first external electronic device second external electronic device and third external electronic device connected for communication. If a content creation start event occurs the media data sharing client control module may acquire second media data by using a camera and may store the data into a memory. According to one example embodiment the media data sharing client control module may create an index table and may store detailed information of the second media data acquired by using the camera into the memory. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the index table may include at least one of a data type length offset and timestamp for each frame or each stream of media data.

If a video transmission request event occurs in at least one of the first peer electronic device the second peer electronic device and the third peer electronic device the media data sharing client control module may determine a video in accordance with a time at which the video transmission request occurs on the basis of the index table and may transmit the determined video to a peer electronic device which requests the transmission. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the index table may include at least one of a data type length offset and timestamp for each frame or each stream of media data.

The display control module may control the display module to display the display data. For example the display control module may display the video received from the peer electronic device.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure an electronic device for creating a content may include a memory a display unit a communication module and a content creating module configured for acquiring first media data in the electronic device for acquiring second media data on the basis of at least a part of the first media data for recognizing a feature of the second media data and for creating the content on the basis of at least a part of the feature of the second media data and storing the content into the memory.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the content creating module may be configured for creating a preview screen on the basis of the first media data and displaying the preview screen on the display unit.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the content creating module may be configured for receiving the second media data in the electronic device or at least one external electronic device on the basis of at least a part of a request for creating the content.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the content creating module may be configured for requesting the electronic device and or the at least one external electronic device to transmit the second media data under a selection of a preview screen on the basis of the first media data currently received on the display unit.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the content creating module may be configured for creating the content on the basis of at least a part of the second media data received from the electronic device or at least one external electronic device through the communication module and storing the content into the memory.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the content creating module may be configured for if the second media data received from the electronic device or the at least one external electronic device has a different feature creating the content by converting the remaining pieces of media data on the basis of at least a part of a feature of media data acquired in any one of the electronic devices and storing the content into the memory.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the feature of the media data may contain at least one of as an extension a CODEC a resolution a brightness a bit rate whether an audio is included whether a subtitle is included an audio volume level a subtitle font a video profile a level and a compression scheme of the media data.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the content creating module may be configured for creating the content on the basis of at least one of an audio and video included in the second media data.

Referring to a first electronic device may perform operation of connecting communication with a second electronic device and a third electronic device . In this case the first electronic device may be directly connected with each external electronic device e.g. the second electronic device and the third electronic device or may be connected via a relay such as a base station and an Access Point AP .

The first electronic device may perform operation of receiving each first media data e.g. preview data from the second electronic device and the third electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the first electronic device may display a preview screen on a real time basis on the basis of at least a part of the first media data. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the first media data may be transmitted and received between the electronic devices without an additional control procedure after performing the communication connection operation. Alternatively the first media data may be transmitted and received between the electronic devices on the basis of the additional control procedure after performing the communication connection. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the first electronic device may request at least one external electronic device between the second electronic device and the third electronic device to transmit the first media data and may receive the requested first media data. Alternatively the first data media may be transmitted and received by using a protocol capable of decreasing a delay which may occur between the electronic devices even if a data loss occurs. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the first media data may be transmitted and received by using a User Datagram Protocol UDP .

The first electronic device may perform operation of requesting the second electronic device to transmit second media data of the second electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure if a preview screen based on at least a part of first media data received from the second electronic device is selected by a user from preview screens based on at least a part of first media data received from the second electronic device and the third electronic device the first electronic device may request the second electronic device to transmit the second media data of the second electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the second media data of the second electronic device may be transmitted and received by using a protocol which supports error correction or error correcting to avoid a data loss. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the second media data of the second electronic device may be transmitted and received by using a Transmission Control Protocol TCP .

The first electronic device may perform operation of receiving the second media data from the second electronic device . In this case the first electronic device may store the second media data received from the second electronic device into a memory. Further the first electronic device may store the second media data received from the second electronic device into a separate server.

The first electronic device may perform operation of requesting the third electronic device to transmit second media data of the third electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure if a preview screen received from the third electronic device is selected by a user from preview screens based on at least a part of first media data received from the second electronic device and the third electronic device the first electronic device may perform an operation of requesting the third electronic device to transmit the second media data of the third electronic device .

The first electronic device may perform operation of receiving the second media data of the third electronic device from the third electronic device . In this case the first electronic device may store the second media data received from the third electronic device into the memory. Further the first electronic device may store the second media data received from the third electronic device into the separate server.

In case of performing operation of receiving the second media data from the third electronic device the first electronic device may compare a feature of the second media data of the third electronic device received from the third electronic device and a feature of the second media data of the second electronic device received previously from the second electronic device .

If the feature of the second media data received from the third electronic device is different from the feature of the second media data received previously from the second electronic device the first electronic device may convert e.g. re encode the second media data received from the third electronic device to have the same feature as the second media data received from the second electronic device . The first electronic device may store data by linking the second media data received from the third electronic device to a last part of the second media data received from the second electronic device .

Referring to a first electronic device may perform operation of connecting communication with a second electronic device and a third electronic device . In this case the first electronic device may be directly connected with each external electronic device or may be connected via a relay such as a base station and an AP.

The first electronic device may perform operation of receiving each first media data e.g. preview data from the second electronic device and the third electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the first electronic device may display a preview screen on a real time basis on the basis of at least a part of the first media data. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the first media data may be transmitted and received between the electronic devices without an additional control procedure after performing the communication connection operation. Alternatively the first media data may be transmitted and received between the electronic devices on the basis of the additional control procedure after performing the communication connection. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the first electronic device may perform an operation of requesting at least one external electronic device between the second electronic device and the third electronic device to transmit the first media data and may perform an operation of receiving the requested first media data. Alternatively the first data media may be transmitted and received by using a protocol capable of decreasing a delay which may occur between the electronic devices even if a data loss occurs. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the first media data may be transmitted and received by using a UDP.

The first electronic device may perform operation of requesting the second electronic device and the third electronic device to start storing the second media data by using a control signal. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the first electronic device may request the second electronic device and the third electronic device to start storing the second media data after a reference time elapses from a reference point. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the second media data may be transmitted and received by using a protocol which supports error correction or error correcting to avoid a data loss. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the second media data may be transmitted and received by using a TCP.

The first electronic device may perform operation of requesting the second electronic device to transmit second media data of the second electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure if a preview screen based on at least a part of first media data received from the second electronic device is selected by a user from preview screens based on at least a part of first media data received from the second electronic device and the third electronic device the first electronic device may request the second electronic device to transmit the second media data of the second electronic device .

The first electronic device may perform operation of receiving the second media data of the second electronic device from the second electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the first electronic device may store the second media data received from the second electronic device into a memory. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the first electronic device may store the second media data received from the second electronic device into a separate server.

The first electronic device may perform operation of requesting the third electronic device to transmit the second media data of the third electronic device . For example if a preview screen based on at least a part of the first media data received from the third electronic device is selected by a user from preview screens based on at least a part of first media data received from the second electronic device and the third electronic device the first electronic device may perform an operation of requesting the third electronic device to transmit the second media data of the third electronic device .

The first electronic device may perform operation of receiving the second media data of the third electronic device from the third electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the first electronic device may perform an operation of storing the second media data received from the third electronic device into the memory. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the first electronic device may perform an operation of storing the second media data received from the third electronic device into the separate server.

In case of performing operation of receiving the second media data from the third electronic device the first electronic device may compare a feature of the second media data of the third electronic device received from the third electronic device and a feature of the second media data of the second electronic device received previously from the second electronic device .

If the feature of the second media data received from the third electronic device of the third electronic device is different from the feature of the second media data of the second electronic device received previously from the second electronic device the first electronic device may perform an operation of converting e.g. re encoding the second media data received from the third electronic device to have the same feature as the second media data received from the second electronic device . The first electronic device may perform an operation of storing data by linking the second media data of the third electronic device received from the third electronic device to the second media data of the second electronic device received from the second electronic device .

The first electronic device may perform operation of requesting the second electronic device and the third electronic device to stop storing the respective second media data by using a control signal. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the first electronic device may perform an operation of requesting the second electronic device and the third electronic device to stop storing the second media data after a reference time elapses from a reference point.

In the aforementioned embodiment of the present disclosure if a feature of second media data of the second electronic device received from the second electronic device is different from a feature of second media data of the third electronic device received from the third electronic device the first electronic device may perform an operation of converting e.g. re encoding the second media data of the third electronic device to have the feature of the previously received second media data of the second electronic device .

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the first electronic device may perform an operation of converting e.g. re encoding the second media data of the second electronic device received from the second electronic device and the second media data of the third electronic device received from the third electronic device based on a feature e.g. type of media data supported by the electronic device of the first electronic device .

In the aforementioned embodiment of the present disclosure the first electronic device may perform an operation of receiving the first media data e.g. preview data from the second electronic device and the third electronic device .

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the first electronic device may perform an operation of displaying the first media data acquired by using the camera of the first electronic device together with a preview screen based on at least a part of the first media data received from the second electronic device and the third electronic device .

In addition the first electronic device may perform an operation of pre confirming a feature of the second electronic device and the third electronic device at a time of receiving the first media data from the second electronic device and the third electronic device .

In addition the first electronic device may perform an operation of receiving the first media data from the second electronic device and the third electronic device while performing an operation of receiving the second media data from the second electronic device and or the third electronic device .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure even if the second electronic device and the third electronic device stop storing of the respective second media data the first electronic device may perform an operation of receiving the first media data from the second electronic device and the third electronic device .

In addition each of the aforementioned first media data and second media data may have the same feature or a different feature. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the first media data and the second media data may be created as different media data on the basis of an encoding scheme of the same media data.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the first electronic device the second electronic device and the third electronic device are classified only to explain that the devices are different from one another and thus the second electronic device or the third electronic device may be the first electronic device in the aforementioned description.

Referring to in operation the electronic device may perform an operation of connecting communication with at least one external electronic device. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure as shown in the electronic device may perform an operation of connecting communication with the first external electronic device the second external electronic device and the third external electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may be directly connected with each external electronic device or may be connected via a relay such as a base station and an AP.

In operation the electronic device may perform an operation of receiving media data from at least one external electronic device. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure if content creating starts in the electronic device as shown in the electronic device may perform an operation of requesting at least one external electronic device connected for communication to transmit the media data. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure if content creating starts in a state where a preview screen of the second external electronic device is selected the electronic device may perform an operation of requesting the second external electronic device to transmit the media data captured from a current time. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may perform an operation of receiving the media data requested from the second external electronic device .

In operation the electronic device may store the received media data. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure as shown in the electronic device may perform an operation of storing the media data received from the second external electronic device after performing an operation of requesting the second external electronic device to transmit the media data captured starting from the current time.

Referring to in operation the electronic device may perform an operation of connecting communication with at least one external electronic device. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure as shown in the electronic device may perform an operation of connecting communication with the first external electronic device the second external electronic device and the third external electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may be directly connected with each external electronic device or may be connected via a relay such as a base station and an AP.

In operation the electronic device may perform an operation of determining whether a content creation start event occurs. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure if content creating starts in the electronic device as shown in the electronic device may perform an operation of requesting at least one external electronic device connected for communication to transmit the media data. If the content creation start event does not occur the electronic device may maintain a communication connection state.

If the content creation start event occurs in operation the electronic device may perform an operation of receiving media data from at least one external electronic device. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure if content creating starts in a state where a preview screen of the second external electronic device is selected as shown in the electronic device may request the second external electronic device to transmit the media data captured from a current time. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may perform an operation of receiving the media data requested from the second external electronic device .

In operation the electronic device may perform an operation of storing the received media data. For example as shown in the electronic device may perform an operation of storing the media data received from the second external electronic device after requesting the second external electronic device to transmit the media data captured starting from the current time.

Referring to in operation the electronic device may perform an operation of connecting communication with at least one external electronic device. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure as shown in the electronic device may perform an operation of connecting communication with the first external electronic device the second external electronic device and the third external electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may be directly connected with each external electronic device or may be connected via a relay such as a base station and an AP.

In operation the electronic device may perform an operation of displaying a preview screen based on at least a part of first media data received from at least one external electronic device. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure if communication is connected between the electronic device and the external electronic devices and as shown in the electronic device may perform an operation of displaying the preview screens and based on at least a part of first media data received from the electronic device or the external electronic devices and . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may perform an operation of displaying the preview screen based on at least a part of first media data captured in the electronic device other than the peer electronic devices and . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the first media data may be transmitted and received between the electronic devices without an additional control procedure after performing the communication connection operation. Alternatively the first media data may be transmitted and received between the electronic devices on the basis of the additional control procedure after performing the communication connection. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may perform an operation of requesting at least one of the external electronic devices and to transmit the first media data and may perform an operation of receiving the requested first media data. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the first data media may be transmitted and received by using a protocol capable of decreasing a delay which may occur between the electronic devices even if a data loss occurs. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the first media data may be transmitted and received by using a UDP.

In addition if the preview screen based on at least a part of the first media data of the second external electronic device is selected as shown in the electronic device may perform an operation of enlarging and displaying the preview screen of the second external electronic device see .

In operation the electronic device may determine whether a content creation start event occurs. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure if content creating starts in the electronic device as shown in the electronic device may perform an operation of requesting an external electronic device corresponding to a preview screen selected from preview screens and based on at least a part of first media data to transmit second media data. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure if the content creation event does not occur the electronic device may perform an operation of continuously maintaining the display of the preview screen.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure if the content creation start event occurs in operation the electronic device may perform an operation of receiving second media data from at least one external electronic device. For example as shown in if content creating starts in a state where the preview screen based on at least a part of the first media data of the second external electronic device is selected see the electronic device may perform an operation of requesting the second external electronic device to transmit second media data of the second external electronic device captured from a current time. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may perform an operation of receiving the second media data from the second external electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure in operation the electronic device may create a content by using the received second media data.

Referring to in operation the electronic device may perform an operation of connecting communication with at least one external electronic device. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure as shown in the electronic device may perform an operation of connecting communication with the first external electronic device the second external electronic device and the third external electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may be directly connected with each external electronic device or may be connected via a relay such as a base station and an AP.

In operation the electronic device may perform an operation of displaying a preview screen based on at least a part of first media data received from at least one external electronic device. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure if communication is connected between the electronic device and the external electronic devices and as shown in the electronic device may perform an operation of displaying the preview screens and based on at least a part of first media data received from the external electronic devices and . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may perform an operation of displaying the preview screen based on at least a part of first media data captured in the electronic device other than the external electronic devices and . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the first media data may be transmitted and received between the electronic devices without an additional control procedure after performing the communication connection operation. Alternatively the first media data may be transmitted and received between the electronic devices on the basis of the additional control procedure after performing the communication connection. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may perform an operation of requesting at least one of the external electronic devices and to transmit the first media data and may perform an operation of receiving the requested first media data. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the first data media may be transmitted and received by using a protocol capable of decreasing a delay which may occur between the electronic devices even if a data loss occurs. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the first media data may be transmitted and received by using a UDP.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure if the preview screen based on at least a part of the first media data of the second external electronic device is selected as shown in the electronic device may perform an operation of enlarging and displaying the preview screen of the second external electronic device see .

In operation the electronic device may determine whether to perform an operation of requesting at least one external electronic device to transmit second media data. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure if content creating starts in the electronic device as shown in the electronic device may perform an operation of requesting an external electronic device corresponding to a preview screen selected from preview screens and based on at least a part of first media data to transmit second media data. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure if the second media data transmission request does not occur the electronic device may maintain an operation of displaying a preview screen based on at least a part of first media data.

If the second media data transmission request operation occurs in operation the electronic device may perform an operation of storing second media data received from a corresponding external electronic device. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure as shown in if content creating starts in a state where the preview screen based on at least a part of the first media data of the second external electronic device is selected see the electronic device may perform an operation of requesting the second external electronic device to transmit second media data captured from a current time. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may perform an operation of storing the second media data received from the second external electronic device .

In operation the electronic device may determine whether an operation of requesting a different external electronic device to transmit second media data occurs. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure it may be determined whether at least one of the remaining preview screens other than the second external electronic device which is currently transmitting the second media data can be selected from the plurality of preview screens and as shown in . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure if the operation of requesting the different external electronic device to transmit the second media data does not occur the electronic device may persistently perform an operation of storing second media data currently received from a corresponding external electronic device in operation .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure if it is requested to the different external electronic device to transmit the second media data in operation the electronic device may perform an operation of storing second media data received from the different external electronic device in succession with respect to second media data received previously. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure if at least one of the remaining preview screens other than the second external electronic device which is currently transmitting the second media data is selected from the plurality of preview screens and as shown in the electronic device may perform an operation of storing second media data currently received from the second external electronic device in succession with respect to second media data received from the third external electronic device or the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may perform an operation of confirming a feature of the second media data received from the second electronic device and the second media data of the third electronic device received from a current time. If the feature of the second media data received from the second electronic device is different from that of the third electronic device the electronic device may perform an operation of storing data in succession by converting e.g. re encoding the currently received second media data of the third electronic device to have the feature of the previously received second media data of the second electronic device .

In operation the electronic device may confirm whether a second media data transmission end request occurs. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure if the second media data transmission end request does not occur the electronic device may continuously perform operation of storing the second media data.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure if the second media data transmission end request occurs the electronic device may end the procedure of .

In the aforementioned embodiment of the present disclosure if features of second media data received from external electronic devices are different from each other the electronic device may perform an operation of converting e.g. re encoding the later received second media data of the external electronic device to have the feature of the received previously second media data of the external electronic device.

In another embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may perform an operation of converting second media data received from external electronic devices to have a feature of second media data supported by the electronic device.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may perform an operation of pre confirming features of external electronic devices at a time of receiving first media data from the external electronic devices.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may perform an operation of receiving first media data from at least one external electronic device while receiving second media data from at least one of external electronic devices.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may perform an operation of receiving first media data from external electronic devices even if at least one of the external electronic devices stops transmitting the second media data.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure as to the aforementioned first media data and second media data a feature of each media data may be identical or different.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the feature of the media data may include at least one of an extension a CODEC a resolution a brightness a bit rate whether an audio is included whether a subtitle is included an audio volume level a subtitle font a video profile a level a compression scheme e.g. CAVLC CABAC and the like of the media data.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device and the external electronic devices are classified only to explain that the devices are different from one another and thus the external electronic devices may be the electronic device in the aforementioned description.

Referring to in operation the electronic device may perform an operation of connecting communication with at least one external electronic device. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure as shown in the electronic device may perform an operation of connecting communication with the first external electronic device the second external electronic device and the third external electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may be directly connected with each external electronic device or may be connected via a relay such as a base station and an AP.

In operation the electronic device may perform an operation of receiving media data from at least one external electronic device. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure if the media data transmission request event occurs in at least one of the first external electronic device the second external electronic device and the third external electronic device as shown in the electronic device may perform an operation of transmitting media data in accordance with a time at which a transmission request occurs to an external electronic device which requests the transmission. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may perform an operation of storing media data into a memory or a server.

Referring to in operation the electronic device may perform an operation of connecting communication with at least one external electronic device. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure as shown in the electronic device may perform an operation of connecting communication with the first external electronic device the second external electronic device and the third external electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may be directly connected with each external electronic device or may be connected via a relay such as a base station and an AP.

In operation the electronic device may determine whether a media data transmission request occurs. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure as shown in the electronic device may determine whether a media data transmission request event occurs in at least one of the first external electronic device the second external electronic device and the third external electronic device connected for communication.

If the media data transmission request event occurs in an operation the electronic device may perform an operation of transmitting media data to an external electronic device which requests transmission of media data. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure if the media data transmission request event occurs in at least one of the first external electronic device the second external electronic device and the third external electronic device as shown in the electronic device may perform an operation of transmitting media data in accordance with a time at which a transmission request occurs to an external electronic device which requests the transmission. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may transmit media data stored in a memory or a server.

Referring to in operation the electronic device may perform an operation of connecting communication with at least one external electronic device. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure as shown in the electronic device may perform an operation of connecting communication with the first external electronic device the second external electronic device and the third external electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may be directly connected with each external electronic device or may be connected via a relay such as a base station and an AP.

In operation the electronic device may perform an operation of transmitting first media data to at least one external electronic device. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure as shown in the electronic device may perform an operation of transmitting first media data to at least one of the first external electronic device the second external electronic device and the third external electronic device connected for communication. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the first media data may be transmitted and received between the electronic devices without an additional control procedure after performing the communication connection operation. Alternatively the first media data may be transmitted and received between the electronic devices on the basis of the additional control procedure after performing the communication connection. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may perform an operation of transmitting requested first media data to a corresponding external electronic device when a first media data transmission request occurs from at least one of the external electronic devices and . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the first data media may be transmitted and received by using a protocol capable of decreasing a delay which may occur between the electronic devices even if a data loss occurs. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the first media data may be transmitted and received by using a UDP.

In operation the electronic device may determine whether a content creation start event occurs. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure if the content creation start event does not occur the electronic device may persistently transmit the first media data in operation .

If the content creation start event occurs in operation the electronic device may perform an operation of acquiring second media data and storing it into a memory. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may create an index table and store detailed information of the second media data into the memory. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the index table may include at least one of a data type length offset and timestamp for each frame or each stream of media data.

In operation the electronic device may determine whether a second media data transmission request occurs. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure as shown in the electronic device may determine whether a second media data transmission request event occurs in at least one of the first external electronic device the second external electronic device and the third external electronic device connected for communication. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure if the second media data transmission request event does not occur the electronic device may acquire the second media data and persistently store it into the memory in operation .

If the second media data transmission request event occurs in operation the electronic device may perform an operation of transmitting second media data to an external electronic device which requests transmission. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure if the second media data transmission request event occurs in at least one of the first external electronic device the second external electronic device and the third external electronic device as shown in the electronic device may determine the second media data in accordance with a time at which a transmission request occurs on the basis of an index table and may transmit the determined second media data to an external electronic device which requests the transmission. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the second media data may be transmitted and received by using a protocol which supports error correction or error correcting to avoid a data loss. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the second media data may be transmitted and received by using a TCP.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may perform transmission by including a feature of first media data at a time of transmitting the first media data to at least one of external electronic devices.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may transmit the first media data to the at least one external electronic device while transmitting second media data to at least one of external electronic devices.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure even if at least one external electronic device which is currently receiving second media data stops receiving the second media data the electronic device may transmit first media data to at least one of external electronic devices.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may store only an audio by extracting it from received media data.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may create a content by removing an audio from received media data and by converting e.g. encoding an additional audio e.g. an MP3 audio source stored in a memory together with the received media data.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may create a content by requesting an external electronic device to provide only an audio other than a video and by converting e.g. encoding it together with a video of different media data e.g. media data pre stored in a memory of the electronic device .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a method for creating a content in an electronic device may include acquiring first media data in the electronic device acquiring second media data on the basis of at least a part of the first media data recognizing a feature of the second media data and creating the content on the basis of at least a part of the feature of the second media data.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the acquiring of the first media data may include creating a preview screen on the basis of the first media data.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the acquiring of the second media data may include receiving the second media data in the electronic device or at least one external electronic device on the basis of at least a part of a request for creating the content.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the acquiring of the second media data may include receiving the second media data from the electronic device and or the at least one external electronic device under a selection of a preview screen on the basis of the first media data.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the creating of the content may include creating the content on the basis of at least a part of the second media data received from the electronic device or at least one external electronic device.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the creating of the content may include if the second media data received from the electronic device or the at least one external electronic device has a different feature creating the content by converting the remaining pieces of media data on the basis of at least a part of a feature of media data acquired in any one of the electronic devices.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the feature of the media data may contain at least one of as an extension a CODEC a resolution a brightness a bit rate whether an audio is included whether a subtitle is included an audio volume level a subtitle font a video profile a level and a compression scheme of the media data.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the creating of the content may include creating the content on the basis of at least one of an audio and video included in the second media data.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the first media data and the second media data may be the same except that only a feature of the media data is different.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the first media data or the second media data may be the same media data as that currently displayed on a screen of a display of the electronic device or the external electronic devices.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the first media data or the second media data may be pre stored media data captured by a camera of the electronic device or the external electronic devices.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the first media data or the second media data may be media data pre stored in a memory of the electronic device or the external electronic devices.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may constitute all or some parts of the electronic device of .

Referring to the electronic device includes at least one AP a communication module a SIM card a memory a sensor module an input unit a display an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and a motor .

The AP may control a plurality of hardware or software constitutional elements connected to the AP by driving an operating system or an application program and may process a variety of data including multimedia data and may perform an arithmetic operation. The AP may be implemented for example with an SoC. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP may further include a GPU.

The communication module e.g. the communication module may perform data transmission reception in communication between other electronic devices e.g. the electronic device or or the server connected with the electronic device e.g. the electronic device through a network. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the communication module may include a cellular module a Wi Fi module a BT module a GPS module an NFC module and a Radio Frequency RF module .

The cellular module may provide a voice call a video call a text service an internet service and the like through a communication network e.g. LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro GSM etc. . In addition the cellular module may identify and authenticate the electronic device within the communication network by using a SIM e.g. the SIM card . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may perform at least some of functions that can be provided by the AP . For example the cellular module may perform at least some of multimedia control functions.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may include a Communication Processor CP . Further the cellular module may be implemented for example with an SoC. Although constitutional elements such as the cellular module e.g. the communication processor the memory the power management module and the like are illustrated as separate constitutional elements with respect to the AP in the AP may also be implemented such that at least one part e.g. the cellular module of the aforementioned constitutional elements is included.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP or the cellular module e.g. the communication processor may load an instruction or data which is received from each non volatile memory connected thereto or at least one of different constitutional elements to a volatile memory and may process the instruction or data. In addition the AP or the cellular module may store data which is received from at least one of different constitutional elements or generated by at least one of different constitutional elements into the non volatile memory.

Each of the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may include for example a processor for processing data transmitted received through a corresponding module. Although the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module are illustrated in as separate blocks according to an embodiment of the present disclosure at least some e.g. two or more of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be included in one IC or IC package. For example at least some of processors corresponding to the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module e.g. a communication processor corresponding to the cellular module and a Wi Fi processor corresponding to the Wi Fi module may be implemented with an SoC.

The RF module may serve to transmit receive data for example to transmit receive an RF signal. Although not shown the RF module may include for example a transceiver a Power Amp Module PAM a frequency filter a Low Noise Amplifier LNA and the like. In addition the RF module may further include a component for transmitting receiving a radio wave on a free space in wireless communication for example a conductor a conducting wire and the like. Although it is illustrated in that the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module share one RF module according to an embodiment of the present disclosure at least one of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module the NFC module may transmit receive an RF signal via a separate RF module.

The SIM card may be a card in which a SIM is implemented and may be inserted to a slot formed at a specific location of the electronic device. The SIM card may include unique identification information e.g. an Integrated Circuit Card IDentifier ICCID or subscriber information e.g. an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

The memory e.g. the memory may include an internal memory or an external memory . The internal memory may include for example at least one of a volatile memory e.g. a DRAM an SRAM an SDRAM etc. or a non volatile memory e.g. an OTPROM a PROM an EPROM an EEPROM a Mask ROM a Flash ROM a NAND flash memory a NOR flash memory etc. .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the internal memory may be a Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory may further include a flash drive and may further include for example CF SD Micro SD Mini SD xD memory stick and the like. The external memory may be operatively coupled to the electronic device via various interfaces. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include a storage unit or a storage medium such as a hard drive.

The sensor module may measure a physical quantity or detect an operation state of the electronic device and thus may convert the measured or detected information into an electric signal. The sensor module may include for example at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B a pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor H e.g. an RGB sensor a bio sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J a light sensor K and a UV sensor M. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may include for example an E node sensor an EMG sensor an EEG sensor an ECG sensor a fingerprint sensor and the like. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling at least one or more sensors included therein.

The input device may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input unit . The touch panel may recognize a touch input for example by using at least one of an electrostatic type a pressure sensitive type and an ultrasonic type. The touch panel may further include a control circuit. In case of the electrostatic type not only a physical contact but also a proximity recognition is possible. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel may provide the user with a tactile reaction.

The digital pen sensor may be implemented for example by using the same or similar method of receiving a touch input of the user or by using an additional sheet for recognition. The key may be for example a physical button an optical key a keypad or a touch key. The ultrasonic input unit is a device by which the electronic device detects a sound wave through a microphone e.g. a microphone by using a pen which generates an ultrasonic signal and is a device capable of radio recognition. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may use the communication module to receive a user input from an external device e.g. a computer or a server connected thereto.

The display e.g. the display module may include a panel a hologram or a projector . The panel may be for example an LCD an AM OLED and the like. The panel may be implemented for example in a flexible transparent or wearable manner. The panel may be constructed as one module with the touch panel . The hologram may use an interference of light and show a stereoscopic image in the air. The projector may display an image by projecting a light beam onto a screen. The screen may be located for example inside or outside the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram or the projector .

The interface may include for example a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB an optical communication interface or a D subminiature D sub . The interface may be included for example in the communication unit of . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include for example a Mobile High definition Link MHL interface an SD Multi Media Card MMC interface or an Infrared Data Association IrDA standard interface.

The audio module may bilaterally convert a sound and electronic signal. The audio module may convert sound information which is input or output for example through a speaker a receiver an earphone the microphone and the like.

The camera module is a device for image and video capturing and according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may include one or more image sensors e.g. a front sensor or a rear sensor a lens not shown an ISP not shown or a flash not shown e.g. LED or xenon lamp . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the camera module may include an infrared camera module and an ultrasonic camera module.

The power management module may manage a power of the electronic device . Although not shown the power management module may include for example a Power Management IC PMIC a charger IC or a battery fuel gauge.

The PMIC may be placed for example inside an IC or SoC semiconductor. Charging may be classified into wired charging and wireless charging. The charger IC may charge a battery and may avoid an over voltage or over current flow from a charger. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the charger IC may further include a charger IC for at least one of the wired charging and the wireless charging. The wireless charging may be classified into for example a magnetic resonance type a magnetic induction type and an electromagnetic type. An additional circuit for the wireless charging for example a coil loop a resonant circuit a rectifier and the like may be added.

The battery gauge may measure for example a residual quantity of the battery and a voltage current and temperature during charging. The battery may store or generate an electricity and may supply a power to the electronic device by using the stored or generated electricity. For example the battery may include a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator may indicate a specific state for example a booting state a message state a charging state and the like of the electronic device or a part thereof e.g. the AP . The motor may convert an electric signal into a mechanical vibration. Although not shown the electronic device may include a processing unit e.g. a GPU for supporting a mobile TV. The processing unit for supporting the mobile TV may process media data according to a protocol of for example Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB media flow and the like.

Each of the aforementioned constitutional elements of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may consist of one or more components and names thereof may vary depending on a type of the electronic device. The electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the aforementioned constitutional elements. Some of the constitutional elements may be omitted or additional other constitutional elements may be further included. In addition some of the constitutional elements of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be combined and constructed as one entity so as to equally perform functions of corresponding constitutional elements before combination.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure in a storage medium having instructions stored therein when the instructions are executed by at least one processor the processor is configured to perform at least one operation. The at least one operation may include acquiring first media data in the electronic device acquiring second media data on the basis of at least a part of the first media data recognizing a feature of the second media data and creating the content on the basis of at least a part of the feature of the second media data.

As described above regarding media data acquired from a plurality of electronic devices a part thereof to be used in an electronic device can be received at each time point and is linked to the received media data to create a content. Therefore a user of the electronic device can decrease a time to create the content.

Methods based on various embodiments disclosed in the claims and or specification based on various embodiments of the present disclosure can be implemented in hardware software or a combination of both.

When implemented in software a non transitory computer readable recording medium for storing one or more programs i.e. software modules can be provided. The one or more programs stored in the non transitory computer readable recording medium are configured to be executed by one or more processors in an electronic device. The one or more programs include instructions for allowing the electronic device to execute the methods based on various embodiments disclosed in the claims and or specification of the present disclosure.

The program i.e. the software module or software can be stored in a random access memory a non volatile memory including a flash memory a ROM an EEPROM a magnetic disc storage device a Compact Disc ROM CD ROM DVDs or other forms of optical storage devices and a magnetic cassette. Alternatively the program can be stored in a memory configured in combination of all or some of these storage media. In addition the configured memory may be plural in number.

Further the program can be stored in an attachable storage device capable of accessing the electronic device through a communication network such as the Internet an Intranet a LAN a Wide LAN WLAN or a Storage Area Network SAN or a communication network configured by combining the networks. The storage device can access the electronic device via an external port.

In addition an additional storage unit on a communication network can access a portable electronic device.

While the present disclosure has been shown and described with reference to various embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

